One Chauthmal is said to have entered into an agreement of sale dated 1980 followed by an agreement dated 1988 agreeing to sell 20 bighas of land in Khasra no.9 in Sukhalpura village to Shiva Co- operative Housing Society Ltd.
(for short `Society').
The said agreement is said to have confirmed (i) that payment of the entire price of 20 bighas of land was made by the society to Chauthmal; (ii) that possession of the land agreed to be sold was delivered to the society; and (iii) <S5>that out of 20 bighas agreed to be sold, 5 bighas of land stood in the name of other persons and Chauthmal would ensure that an agreement was executed by them also in favour of the society in regard to that extent.</S5>
4.
Some lands in Sukhalpura village, including 31 bighas in Khasra no.9, were acquired for a housing scheme floated by Rajasthan Housing Board (for short, `the Board') under preliminary notification dated 1985 and final notification dated 1985 issued under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (`Act' for short).
Khasra no.9 was shown as `Sivaya Chak' (government land) in the said notification and possession thereof was delivered to the Housing Board on 3 5.
Chauthmal is said to have filed a revenue suit for a declaration that Khasra no.9 was not government land and that he was one of the owners of the said land and for consequential reliefs.
The said suit was decreed on 1986, and was affirmed by the Revenue Board, Ajmer.
In pursuance of it, the following five persons were shown as owners of Khasra no.9 in the revenue records, their share being shown in brackets : Chauthmal (15/33), Mohanlal (2/33), Geeta Devi (2/33), Kaushaliya Devi (1/33) and Kanhaiyalal (13/33).
6.
The State Government formulated a scheme enabling the land owners to opt for allotment of developed land equal to 15% of acquired land in lieu of the compensation for the acquired land.
The cases where the land owners opt for such allotment, were to be considered by an Allotment Committee, to decide upon the requests after due inquiry into title and after ascertaining that there were no claims or court-cases.
7.
The land owners/power of Attorney holders of Khasra no.9 approached the Board for such allotment.
One Kailash Chand who claimed to be the successor (legatee) of Chauthmal was one of them and he claimed allotment of developed land in lieu of 15 bighas of acquired land.
The 4 society also appears to have filed an application before the Board on 2001 claiming compensation in respect of 20 bighas in Khasra no.9 on the basis of the agreement of sale.
<S5>The claim of the society was rejected </S5>on 8.
<S5>On 2002 the power of attorney holders of four owners of Khasra no.9 (Kailash Chand, Mohanlal, Geeta Devi and Kanhaiyalal) entered into separate agreements with the Housing Board, consenting for allotment of developed land (15% of the extent of the acquired land) in lieu of compensation.</S5>
<S5>In the said agreements, the land owners asserted and declared that their respective shares in the land were not subject to any encumbrance and no dispute or litigation was pending in regard to the same.</S5>
After an inquiry, the Allotment Committee accepted the request and a settlement award dated 2002 was passed by the Special Officer of Rajasthan Housing Board recording the agreement to allot 15% developed land in lieu of compensation in respect of 28 bighas 17 Biswas in Khasra no.9 (as the remaining 2 bighas 3 Biswas out of 31 bighas notified, was found to be under encroachment).
Pattas were issued subsequently in regard to such allotted land.
5 9.
Thereafter, the members of the society filed a complaint before the Board claiming that the society ought to have received the said 15% developed land in lieu of compensation relating to the 20 bighas of acquired land.
Some members of the society, through a forum known as Mithila Nagar Suraksha & Vikas Samiti also made a representation to the Chief Minister on 2005 alleging that the Khatedars/power of attorney holders of Khasra no.9 in collusion with the Special Officer had practiced fraud and grabbed the valuable land from the Rajasthan Housing Board.
The Chief Minister's office appears to have suggested action on such representation.
In pursuance of it, the appellant on behalf of the Board lodged an FIR on 2005 (at about 20 p.m.
), alleging that <S5>the Khatedars/Power of Attorney holders of Khasra no.
9 had made false representations to the Board, and in collusion with the Special Officer of the Board and office bearers of the society, had fraudulently obtained allotment pattas in the year 10.</S5>
