The applicant is inter alia engaged in the business of seed cloning and production, nursery development and propagation, plantation management and maintenance and the cultivation of medicinal plants.
On 04 the applicant and the non-applicant 3 entered into seed supply agreement (Supply Agreement) through which the applicant agreed to establish nurseries and prepare seedling (seed) catering to the requirement of non-applicant.
According to the said Agreement the non-applicant promised to make an investment of rs.35 lakhs with the applicant.
The Supply Agreement inter alia contained an arbitration clause 1 which reads as under: " Any dispute that arises between the parties shall be resolved by submitting the same to the institutional arbitration in India under the provisions of [Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996](http://www.liiofindia.org/in/legis/cen/num_act/aaca1996265/).
" 4.
Applicant herein entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with non-applicant on The said Agreement contemplated incorporation of a Joint Venture Company.
This second Agreement did not contain an arbitration clause.
It may be noted that the applicant has no claim against the non-applicant under the second Agreement.
5.
Besides the Joint Venture Agreement dated 04, a third Agreement was also entered into on 04 called as Research and Development Agreement ("R & D Agreement", in short).
4 6.
In short, there existed three Agreements at the relevant time.
The first was the Supply Agreement.
The second was the Joint Venture Agreement.
The Third was R & D Agreement.
In between the Joint Venture and R & D Agreements there is Termination Agreement dated Although the applicant has no claim under the Joint Venture Agreement, it is necessary to mention that there were three Agreements by and between the parties because one of the contentions raised by the non-applicant in its counter (at page 109 of the paper book of Arbitration Application) to the effect that if the applicant genuinely believed that the Supply Agreement had not been terminated by the Termination Agreement dated 04, it would not have entered into the R & D Agreement under which the applicant had received #40 thousand.
7.
To sum up the chronology of events it may be stated that the Supply Agreement came to be executed on The Joint Venture Agreement came to be executed on However, on 04 a Termination Agreement allegedly has been entered into by and between the parties.
After Termination Agreement, parties executed R & D Agreement on 5 8.
There is no dispute regarding execution of the Supply Agreement, the execution of the Joint Venture Agreement and the execution of R & D Agreement.
The dispute is regarding the execution of the Termination Agreement dated The dispute is regarding the effect of that Termination Agreement by which purportedly the Supply Agreement stood terminated.
The dispute is also whether in view of the specific clauses mentioned in the Termination Agreement, all claims ceased to exist.
9.
The entire controversy revolves around the purported Deed of Termination dated The claim of the applicant 10.
The claim made by the applicant concerns willful breach of obligations by the non-applicant under the Supply Agreement.
Applicant says that they have exhausted all the available remedies before approaching this Court for appointment of Arbitrators under Section 11 of the 1996 Act.
It is their submission that the Supply Agreement dated 04 has not been terminated by the purported Termination Agreement dated It is their claim that the alleged Deed of Termination is brought about by the non-applicant by forging the signatures of its Directors only to avoid the liabilities 6 and obligations under the Supply Agreement between the parties.
It is their claim that <S5>the existence of the Termination Agreement came to be noticed by them only on 05 when the non-applicant representatives forwarded the alleged Termination Agreement.</S5>
<S5>It is only then that they noticed that the document was false and fabricated.</S5>
<S5>The applicant's claim that the Termination Agreement was not signed by two of its Directors whose signatures had been forged and that in any event the said two Directors had no authority to sign the said Agreement.</S5>
In fact a criminal complaint has been registered on 05 in Hyderabad and the same is under investigation.
The applicant claims that <S5> they have also forwarded the forged document to a private investigating agency with the specimen signatures of their two Directors together with the admitted signatures which, according to the applicant, reveals that the signatures on the Termination Agreement were forged between 04 being the date of the Termination Agreement and 04 being the date on which the applicant noticed the existence of the Termination Agreement for the first time.</S5>
There has been lot of correspondence between the parties on the basis of which the claimant claims damages for not being paid for supply of Jatropha seedlings.
In short, the claim for damages is for reimbursement of expenses incurred by the applicant as part of the total investment 7 under the Supply Agreement.
It may be noted that in the Arbitration Application, the claim for damages based on reimbursement of expenditures incurred by the applicant is confined to the Supply Agreement.
However, in the Written Statement, the claim refers to the Supply Agreement as well as the R & D Agreement.
In this connection, it is alleged that in the original R & D Agreement dated 04, there was no arbitration clause, however, in the R & D Agreement read with the modification in the form of Addendum dated 05, an arbitration clause was incorporated.
The claim of the applicant is set out in its letter dated 05 by which the applicant has claimed compensation in respect of breach of obligations by the non- applicant under the Supply Agreement and under the R & D Agreement.
It is also set out in the letter dated By notice dated 05 the applicant called upon the non-applicant to agree for appointment of m/s.
Jupiter Legal Services Pvt.
Ltd.
to conduct arbitration under 1996 Act to which the non- applicant did not agree.
Suffice it to state that after exhausting all available remedies the applicant have approached this Court for appointment of Arbitrators under Section 11 of the 1996 Act.
Response of the non-applicant 8 11.
