
On the eve of his retirement, as an Executive Engineer, he was served with an order of dismissal vide Office Memo dated 2005 dismissing him from service following a disciplinary enquiry initiated under Rule 7 of the U.P.
Government Servant (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 2.

Shiv Pujan Prasad was initially appointed as an Overseer in the Public Works Department of the State of Uttar Pradesh on <S5>While entering service he produced a certificate dated 1971 issued by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Chakia, showing that he belonged to `Manjhi' (Majhwar) Community, a scheduled caste.</S5>
The post of Overseer was subsequently designated as Junior Engineer and he was confirmed in that post on On 1978, Shiv Pujan Prasad was awarded selection grade.
Later, on 1982,<S5> he was promoted as an Assistant Engineer, a post reserved for scheduled castes.</S5>
The Chief Engineer, however, subsequently passed an order reverting him to the post of Junior Engineer on the ground that he did not belong to the scheduled caste community.

Shiv Pujan Prasad was permitted to resume work as an Assistant Engineer and continued in service.
He was promoted as Executive Engineer vide order dated 6.
The State Government later received a complaint dated 1998 from the General Secretary of an Association called Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, Mirzapur, Sonebhadra, questioning the caste status of the appellant.
Another complaint was registered before the Uttar Pradesh Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe, Commission, by the All India SC, ST, Backward Classes and Minority Employees Welfare Association, Pipri, on The Commission ordered yet another enquiry on the caste status of Shiv Pujan Prasad under Section 11 of U.P.
Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe Commission Act, </S5>Enquiry revealed that Shiv Pujan Prasad belonged to "Mallah" community which is a backward community and that he did not belong to "Manjhi" community which is a Scheduled Caste.<S5>
Pointing out that Shiv Pujan Prasad had obtained appointment on the basis of forged caste certificate, an FIR was lodged against him by the Department for an offence punishable under Section 420 Indian Penal Code, 1860.
Shiv Pujan 5 Prasad was then placed under suspension pending disciplinary proceedings.
The <S5>Enquiry Report held that Shiv Pujan Prasad got appointment on the basis of forged caste certificate in which the caste "Manjhi" was written in place of "Mallah" and got several promotions in the service.</S5>
The Government accepted the report and dismissed Shiv Pujan Prasad from service on 2005, two days prior to the date of his superannuation.

