An FIR came to be registered on 15th November, 2000 in the Delhi Special Police Establishment, Ranchi Branch in Crime no.
RC 13(A)/2000 (R) under Section 120B read with Section 420 Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 against nine accused of whom the first 2 accused was the Coal Controller at the relevant point of time.
The next five accused were the officers of Central Coalfields Limited (hereinafter `CCL'.
for short), which is a subsidiary of Coal India Limited (hereinafter `CIL', for short).
Accused no.9 is a Private Limited Company (hereinafter `private company', for short) and accused Nos.
7 and 8 are the members of the said private company.
3.
The sole respondent, Mr.
Ramesh Gandhi, is one of the members of the above-mentioned private company and shown to be the seventh accused in the above-mentioned FIR.
He filed writ petition no.
352/2001 on the file of the Calcutta High Court praying that the above-mentioned FIR be quashed.
By the judgment under appeal, the Calcutta High Court allowed the writ petition quashing the FIR.
4.
The substance of the accusation in the FIR is that all the accused entered into a criminal conspiracy to confer an illegal and unjust benefit on the above-mentioned private company.
In the process, the accused, "intentionally and dishonestly" suppressed certain relevant and crucial facts (in the various cases filed before the Calcutta High Court and also this Court to which the accused were parties), which resulted in orders being passed both by this Court as well as by the High Court favourable to the private company.
3 5.
FIR reads as follows: "DELHI SPECIAL POLICE ESTABLISHMENT, RANCHI BRANCH FIRST INFORMATION REPORT Crime no.
RC 13(A)/2000(R), Date and time of Report : 2000 at 1700 Hrs.
Place of occurrence with State : Calcutta (West Bengal), Ranchi (Jharkhand) Date and time of occurrence : 1990-91 to 2000 Name of complainant or informant with address : Through Source Offence : U/s.
120B r/w 420 Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Sec.
13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of PC Act, Name and address of the accused : (1) Shri P.N.
Tiwary, the then Coal Controller, Calcutta (retd.
) (2) Shri R.P.
Srivastava, the then G.M.
Sales, CCL, Ranchi (retd.
) (3) Shri sectionK.
Srivastava, G.M.
(Sales), CCL, Ranchi (4) Shri B.
Akla, CMD, CCL, Ranchi (5) Shri K.M.
Singh, the then G.M.
, Argada Area, CCL (6) Shri Sudarshan Singh, the then Area Sales Officer Argada Area, CCL, presently Superintending Engineer (E&M), N.K.
Area, CCL (7) Shri Ramesh Gandhi, Prop.
m/s.
Continental Transport Constn.
Corpn.
, (CTCC), Dhanbad (Pvt).
(8) Shri Mahesh Gandhi of m/s.
CTCC, Dhanbad (Pvt.
) (9) m/s.
Continental Transport Construction Corpn.
(CTCC), Dhanbad (Pvt.
) Action taken : Regular case registered and investigation taken up.
Investigation Officer: Shri A.
Prasad, DSP, CBI, SPE, Ranchi 4 INFORMATION A reliable information has been received to the effect that Shri P.N.
Tiwary, the then Coal Controller (since retd.
), Calcutta, Shri R.P.
Srivastava, the then G.M.(Sales), CCL, Ranchi (since retd.
), Shri sectionK.
Srivastava, the then GM.(Sales), CCL, Ranchi, Shri B.
Akla, the then Chief of Marketing, Coal India Limited, Calcutta, Director (Technical) and (Projects and Planning), CCL and presently Chairman-cum- Managing Director, Central Coalfields Ltd.
(CCL), Ranchi, Shri K.M.
Singh, the then G.M.
, Argada Area, CCL, Shri Sudarshan Singh, the then Area Sales Officer, Argada Area, CCL (presently Superintending Engineer (E&M), N.K.
Area, CCL, Shri Ramesh Gandhi of m/s.
Continental Transport Construction Corpn.
, Dhanbad and Shri Mahesh Gandhi of m/s.
Continental Transport Construction Corpn.
, Dhanbad entered into a criminal conspiracy among themselves and in furtherance of the said conspiracy the accused public servants abused their respective official positions, in as much as that they <S5>helped the private firm namely m/s.
CTCC by way of illegally and unauthorisedly transferring different grades of coal/slurry to the private firm</S5> (CTCC) and also by way of<S5> intentionally and dishonestly suppressing relevant facts before the Hon'ble Courts and thereby helped m/s.
CTCC in getting favourable orders for release of steam coal which was meant to be supplied only to the actual users and not to the traders like m/s.
CTCC.</S5>
As a result of the aforesaid overt acts of the accused public servants as mentioned above,<S5> m/s.
CTCC, illegally obtained the supply of the Steam Coal at a cheaper rate applicable to the actual users, even after the lapse of the period stipulated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, causing wrongful loss to the tune of rs.90,00,000/- approximately to the CCL.</S5>
It has been alleged that Coal India Limited (CIL), Calcutta vide NIT (Notice Inviting Tender) dated 9/15-1-91 offered sale of existing stock of following categories of coal under "BULK SALE SCHEME" on as is where is basis.
(i) Slurry (ii) Dirty Slurry (iii) Middlings (iv) Rejects It was also stipulated vide item no.23 of the terms and conditions of the NIT that in case of failure on the part of the buyer to lift 90% of the quantity within 90 days of allocation, security deposit and the Bank Guarantee would be liable to be forfeited by the Company.
5 In response to the aforesaid NIT, m/s.
CTCC, offered to buy following quantity/quality of coal at the prescribed rate.
m/s.
CTCC was allotted the entire quantity w.e.f.
91 which was to be lifted within 90 days after depositing the cost in advance.
Name of Product Quantity offered Price by m/s.
CTCC Slurry Grade `D' 179000 MT rs.37756/- per MT Dirty Slurry Grade `F' 45000 MT rs.50 per MT Middlings Grade `F' 90000 M T rs.50 per MT Rejects 50000 MT rs.
00 per MT It is further alleged that m/s.
CTCC deposited the cost only for 1500 MTs of Middlings Grade `F' and 13276 MT of Slurry Grade `D' against the offered quantity as mentioned in the foregoing para.
m/s.
<S5>CTCC had lifted this quantity of 1500 MT only and was thus to be penalised by way of forfeiture of security/invoking of Bank Guarantee as per terms and conditions of the NIT.
However, the concerned accused public servants in pursuance to a criminal conspiracy, had shown favours to m/s.
CTCC by not taking action subsequently as above.</S5>
In furtherance of the conspiracy, m/s.
<S5>CTCC requested the CIL in April 1993 to transfer the remaining quantity of 88500 MT of Middlings Grade `F' to Dirty Slurry Grade `F' and the same was approved on 93 in complete violation of terms and conditions of the NIT.</S5>
<S5>Accused Ramesh Gandhi of m/s.
CTCC in accordance with Shri P.N.
Tiwary, the then Coal Controller, Calcutta and the accused officials of the CCL/CIL submitted a representation to accused Shri P.N.
Tiwary requesting transfer of the left over quantity of 165724 MT of Slurry Grade `D' to Dirty Slurry Grade `F'.
Shri P.N.
Tiwari, in his capacity as Coal Controller, was supposed to allow the transfer of grade of coal after following due procedure, but he, in utter violation of the terms and condition of the NIT, approved the same and intimated to the CMD, CCL, Ranchi, accordingly.</S5>
It is further alleged that the Coal India Limited, Calcutta floated another NIT under "LIBERALISED SALES SCHEME II (LSS-II)", with same terms and conditions as of Bulk Sale Scheme, and m/s.
CTCC offered to purchase, under this scheme, following quantities of coal from the collieries mentioned against each.
6 Grade of Coal Quantity lifted Colliery (i) Steam Coal Grade `B' 35 Lakhs MT Urimari (ii) Steam Coal Washery Grade 75 Lakhs MT Jarangdih `D' It is further alleged that m/s.
CTCC was allotted 32,000 MT of Steam Coal Grade `B' from URIMARI Colliery and 5750 MT of Washery Grade `D' Coal from Jarangdih Colliery vide letter dated 93 and 93 respectively of Coal India Limited, Calcutta.
As against the aforesaid allotted quantity m/s.
CTCC deposited the amount equal only to the value of 3000 MT each and lifted the same from the respective sources.
In pursuance of criminal conspiracy m/s.
CTCC further requested the then General Manager, Argada Area, CCL, Shri K.M.
Singh, vide letter dated 94 to allot Steam Coal from Sirka, Religara and Giddi `C' Collieries (All high demand collieries), in lieu of left over quantity of Slurry Grade `D' (165724 MT), Middlings Grade `F' (88500 MT) and Dirty Slurry Grade'F' (45000 MT) of the previous scheme, i.e.
Bulk Sale Scheme.
Steam Coal of the aforesaid three sources namely Sirka, Religara and Giddi `C' was to be allotted, as per the policy of the CIL/CCL, exclusively to the industrial consumers (Actual users) and not to the traders like m/s.
CTCC at all, during the relevant period.
Also, the rate of Steam Coal applicable to the industrial Consumers (Actual users) was approximately rs.200/- per MT less than the rate fixed for the traders and m/s.
CTCC being the traders, was not authorised to get the Steam Coal at the rate which was applicable to the industrial consumers (actual users).
Following the receipt of letter dated 94 of m/s.
CTCC, <S5>accused Shri K.M.
Singh, the then General Manager, Argada Area, CCL, in pursuance to the criminal conspiracy falsely intimated the Sales and Marketing Divisions of CCL, Ranchi, on 94 to the effect that Argada Area was having a huge stock of Steam Coal and that he was ready to supply the same to m/s.
CTCC.</S5>
It is further alleged that accused Shri K.M.
Singh, the then General Manager, Argada Area, CCL also was not competent to entertain such a matter as it was the concern of General Manager (Sales and Marketing), CCL, Ranchi.
Simultaneously, <S5>accused Ramesh Gandhi of m/s.
CTCC approached accused P.N.
Tiwary, the then Coal Controller, as well, on the same issue, who in turn, in criminal conspiracy with m/s.
7 CTCC and accused public servants wrote a letter dated 94 to the CMD, CCL, Ranchi, inter alia, directing him to accede to the request of m/s.
CTCC, without ascertaining from the CCL, Ranchi, the stock position and the past conduct of m/s.
CTCC of not remitting the cost of entire offered quantity of coal in question against both the aforesaid schemes namely `Bulk Sale' and `LSS-II' within the stipulated period as prescribed and also the fact that m/s.
CTCC was not authorised to get the Steam Coal which was meant for Industrial Units (Actual Users).
Even before the aforesaid letter dated 94 of accused P.N.
Tiwary, was received in the office of the CMD, CCL, Ranchi, accused Ramesh Gandhi of m/s.
CTCC moved to the Hon'ble High Court, Calcutta by suppressing the relevant facts of the matter and secured an order dated 94 vide which CMD, CCL, Ranchi was directed to comply with the directions of the Coal Controller issued vide letter dated The accused public servants of CIL/CCL also did not place the correct facts before the Hon'ble High Court, Calcutta in the matter.</S5>
It is further alleged that it was obligatory on the part of accused R.P.
Shrivastava, the then General Manager (Sales), CCL, Ranchi, and Shri Akla, the then Chief of Marketing, CIL, Calcutta to safeguard the interest of the company by way of approaching the Coal Controller to modify his order issued vide letter dated 94 according to the terms and conditions of the NITs in question and also to recommend to move the Division Bench of Hon'ble High Court Calcutta for modification of the order dated 94 on following points.
(i) m/s.
CTCC did not fulfil the terms and conditions of NITs in question and thus the penalty was to be imposed on them; (ii) Steam Coal of the aforesaid collieries was not meant for traders like m/s.
CTCC.
(iii) Traders, if allotted Steam Coal, were to pay @ rs.200/- approximately (per MT) more than the rate allowed to the Industrial Consumers (Actual users).
However, they, in pursuance to the criminal conspiracy, simply recommended challenging the authority of the Coal Controller for issuing direction vide letter dated 94, in the Hon'ble High Court, Calcutta since the Coal Controller was authorised to issue such letters, the Hon'ble High Court, Calcutta vide order dated 95 dismissed the Revision Petition filed by the CIL with direction to implement the order dated 94 of the Coal Controller.
8 m/s.
CTCC, however, did not deposit the value of the Coal to be lifted again, on some pretext or the other as they were not in a position to sale such a huge quantity of coal at monopolistic price, those days, since the buyers were getting coal directly from the Coal India Limited and other sources.
Also neither the accused Shri B.
Akla, the then Chief of Marketing CIL nor Shri R.P.
Shrivastava, the then General Manager (Sales and Marketing), CCL, Ranchi asked m/s.
CTCC to deposit the coal value and to lift the coal.