
The appellant married Yashodhamma in September Even before the marriage <S6>there was demand for dowry of jewels and rs.
50, 000/- in cash and only a part thereof was paid.</S6>
The remaining part was being paid in instalments.
<S6>the appellant was repeatedly demanding payment of dowry in cash and also jewels.</S6>
<S6>he was treating his wife with cruelty as evident from letters written by her to her relations.</S6>
Though there were tow children, <S6>the appellant did not stop the ill- treatment of his wife.</S6>
on 1984 there was a quarrel between husband and wife which was noticed by the neighbors.
In the evening between 5 and 30 P.M.
the appellant's wife came running out of the house with flames on her clothes and dashed against the scooter of the appellant kept in front of the house.
she fell down and rolled on the ground.
The appellant came out of the house and restored the scooter to its stand but did not take steps to save his wife and went away after merely touching her.
The neighbours who were present made all attempts to put out the flames by wrapping her in a rug and removing the burning clothes for her body.
An auto rickshaw was brought by one of them and she was taken to the Government hospital.
3.
<S6>Even before that the appellant's wife had told the neighbours that her husband had poured kerosene oil on her and set fire.</S6>
While going in auto- rikshaw <S6>she was repeatedly saying that her husband had burnt her.</S6>
She was admitted in the hospital by PW 12 to whom the appellant's wife had two days before the incident given a sum of rs.
100/- and addresses of her brothers with a request to inform them in the event of anything untoward happening to her.
PW -12 sent telegrams to the relatives of the appellant's wife.
The appellant went to the hospital later in the night and saw his wife in the ward.
He scolded PW 12 Krishnaveni fro staying in the hospital by the side of his wife and told her that whatever had happened and his wife should be properly advised.
4.
On 1984 the statement of the appellant's wife was recorded by PW 27, P.S.I.
Extension Police Station, Devangere.
The appellant was arrested on the same day in the hospital where he was undertaking treatment as an indoor patient.
The appellant's wife died on 84 at about 30 AM.

Q.
46: It is in evidence of PWs 12 to 14 that there was scooter in front of your house at that time and due to rush of Yashodhamma running out she hit the scooter and it fell by its side.
What do you say? Ans.
It is false.
I tried to put out the fire at that time.
I sustained burn injury to my left hand.
Q.
It is in evidence of PWs 12 to 14 that Yashodhamma got up and went in front of the house of PW 12 and fell on the road and started rolling.
What do you say? Ans.
She was lying on the road.
Q.
it is in evidence of PWs 12 to 14 that you came out of your house and instead of attending to your wife, you lifted and stationed the scooter and touched your wife yashodhamma with your left hand and went inside the house.
What do you say? Ans.
I tried to put out the fire and at that time I sustained an injury to my left hand.
Q.
it is in evidence of PWs 12, 14, 15 and 16 that around 45 P.M.
they reached the hospital and got Yashodhamma shifted to the Causality Medical Officer.
What do you say? Ans.
It is false.
When went to the hospital, Yashodha was in the ward.

