
SINHA, J : Appellant no.1 was married to Amarjit Kaur (deceased).
She had been complaining of <S6>ill-treatment at the hands of her in laws.</S6>
The dispute between the deceased on the one hand and Appellants on the other was resolved by Panchayat.
As despite the same, <S6>ill-treatment continued,</S6> an application was filed before the Senior Superintendent of Police by the deceased.
Appellant no.1 was working as Sepoy in the Indian Army.
He took leave for two months.
A settlement was effected whereby Appellants were made responsible for any untoward incident that might happen to the deceased.
She in view of the said settlement came to her matrimonial home.
On 1995, she received 90% burn injuries.
She was taken to a hospital.
Although she was in her senses, having regard to the extent of burn injuries suffered by her, the doctors attending on her opined that her dying declaration should be taken.
Her dying declaration was taken down by one Dr.
Anoop Kumar in presence of other doctors including Dr.
R.S.
Kadiyan, Professor of Skin and VD Department, Christian Medical College, Ludhiana.
The said dying declaration, marked as exhibit P- 1, which was recorded at about 30 A.M.
on 1995, reads as under : "Pt.
Amarjit Kaur w/o Balbir Singh, unit no.
C- 180136 aged 24 years, married for three years as stated by patient herself in presence of Dr.
R.S.
Kadyan (Addl.
Deputy Medical Superintendent), Dr.
Tejinder Singh (DCMO, CMCH Ludhiana.
Pt.
was brought to Casualty Deptt.
Of CMCH Ludhiana at 830 a.m.
on 95 by neighbours along with husband who was forced by the neighbours to accompany them as stated by the Pt.
According to patient <S6>she was conflict with her husband and mother in law for whole night yesterday at 00 a.m.
in the morning when she went for urination, her husband approached from behind and threw kerosene oil and ignited her and locked the door from outside.</S6>
She cried and was rescued by neighbours and brought to the hospital.
Patient was referred from Civil Hospital, Malerkotla.
" Her parents in the meanwhile were also informed.
They came to the hospital.
The First Information Report was lodged at about 30 a.m.
on the same day; whereupon a case under Sections 307/498-A of the Indian Indian Penal Code, 1860, 1860 was registered.
The Investigating Officer came to the hospital and recorded a second dying declaration which was marked exhibitP-J.
In the said dying declaration she not only named her husband but also her mother- in-law, inter alia, stating : "But dispute continued as usual.
Today at about 5 A.M.
, when I got up for urinating (sic for urination) and went inside the bath room constructed in the house.
Then with an intention to kill me and as a part of their conspiracy, <S6>my husband Fauji Balbir Singh and mother- in-law Nachattar Kaur set me on fire after pouring kerosene, due to which I was badly burnt.</S6>
I raised an alarm saying 'Bachao Bachao' (Save-Save) and both of them ran away.
My father-in-law Joga Singh with an intention to save me, first took me to Malerkotla Hospital in a Taxi from where I was referred to Patiala by the doctor due to extensive burns, but my father-in-law took me to CMC Ludhiana.
Where I am lying on death bed.
Action may be taken.
" The said dying declaration bore her signature.
She died on 1995 at about 15 a.m.
, whereupon a case under Section 302 Indian Penal Code, 1860 was registered.

Dr.
sectionS.
Kokhar, (PW-3), Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital Malerkotla, stated that the deceased was brought at the Emergency Ward with 70% burn over the body.
Dr.
K.C.
Goyal sent the information about the incident to the police.
He further stated that the patient was referred to a "higher institution".
Dr.
R.S.
Kadiyan (PW-12) witnessed recording of the statement of Amarjit Kaur by Dr.
Anoop Kumar.
He found her to be in her senses.
He proved the dying declaration.
He also stated that Dr.
Tejinder Singh and Dr.
Ashish Gupta were also present.
The witness stated that although they thought of calling for some Magistrate for recording her statement but having regard to serious condition of the patient and as the time therefor was short, it was decided not to wait therefor.
PW-13 is Dr.
Anoop Kumar, who had recorded the dying declaration.
In his deposition, he categorically stated : "Amarjit Kaur was admitted in the hospital at about 30 a.m.
on I suspected that Amarjit Kaur can succumb to the burn injuries when I first saw her.
I did not send the information to police about my suspicion that she may die of burn injuries.
I did not send for any Magistrate to come and record her statement.
I gave the information to my superiors on telephone.
The Additional Deputy Superintendent reached in the emergency within about five minutes.
It was not suggested to me by Medical Superintendent who came that I should send the request to the police or to the Magistrate for recording statement of Amarjit Kaur" As regards the reason for not taking either thumb impression or signature of the deceased on the dying declaration, he stated : "Statement of exhibit PP is not thumb marked or signed by the lady but she was having burns on all over the body including palms of the hand.
There is no burn injury on the toes of the feet of the deceased.
I did not obtain the impressions of toes of the patient because I was not aware that this can be done.
I do not remember if the thumb of the finger toes were partly or totally burnt.
When patient was brought in the hospital she was given in tera benus fluids.
I did not do that the bandage of the wounds.
I do not remember if the hands of the lady were having the bandage when I recorded her statement.
It took about ten or fifteen in recording the statement of Amarjit Kaur.
" We would consider the effect of the said statement a little later.
It may be true, as was contended, that Dr.
Ashish Gupta was not examined but it is borne out from the records that he at the material time, had gone abroad.
Keeping in view the statements of Dr.
R.S.
Kadiyan and Dr.
Anoop Kumar, in our opinion, it was also not necessary to examine Dr.
Ashish Gupta.
The second dying declaration was recorded by Sub Inspector Tejinder Singh (PW-10).
When the second dying declaration was being recorded, he had obtained the opinion of the doctor that the deceased was fit to make her statement.

In exhibit PB/2 recorded by PW 2 <S6>the deceased stated that her mother-in- law sprinkled kerosene from behind and burnt her.</S6>
In the next statement exhibit DA recorded by Dr Jaison Chopra, CW 1, she is alleged to have stated that her clothes got burnt catching fire from the stove, thereby indicating that it was an accident.
In the third statement exhibit PJ recorded by CW 2 she was rather vague as to who exactly poured kerosene and set fire on her and she only stated that it could be possible that her mother-in-law and father-in- law might have set the fire after pouring kerosene.
On September 30, 1979 exhibit PD was recorded in the presence of three doctors, PW 7, PW 3 and CW 1 wherein she stated that she turned to the store and she heard her mother-in-law and father-in-law talking behind her and suddenly they poured kerosene and they set her on fire" However, in State of Karnataka vs Shariff [(2003) 2 SCC 473], this Court categorically held that there was no requirement of law that a dying declaration must necessarily be made before a Magistrate.

The dispute between the deceased and the family of the Appellant is borne out from a DDR (Ex.
PO) recorded on 1995, wherein it was recorded that because of a dispute she had gone to her parents' house and that as a result of the compromise, 'the grievances had been removed and the accused Balbir Singh and his family would be responsible for any loss to the lady'.
It is also substantiated by the testimonies of Ram Kishan (PW-6), father of the deceased, Gurdev Kaur (PW-7), mother of the deceased, Ajaib Singh (PW- 8), and Sarup Singh (PW-9) relatives of the deceased, who had categorically deposed <S6>stating how the deceased received maltreatment at the hands of Appellants on account of non-fulfillment of their demand of dowry.</S6>
The deliberations which had taken place in the Panchayat had also been proved by Ajaib Singh (PW-8) and Sarup Singh (PW-9).
