
The facts very briefly are that an FIR was lodged by Chhotu Ram (the informant) in P.S.
Gannaur on 1992 at 45 P.M.
In the FIR, the informant stated thus: He got his daughter Krishna married to Devinder @ Kala Ram of village Rajpur on From after a month of the marriage, <S6>Krishna kept coming to the house of the informant at village Tihar Malik complaining of demands of dowry and harassment by the members of the family of Devinder.</S6>
On 1992, Jai Beer Singh informed the informant that Krishna was dead.
The informant came straightway to the hospital at Sonepat and found <S6>Krishna dead because of burns.</S6>






We have gone through the evidence of PW-2, PW-3, PW-4 and PW-5 and we find that the evidence therein fully support the finding of the High Court <S6>that from a few days after marriage till her death, the deceased was subjected to harassment in connection with the demand of dowry by all the three appellants.</S6>
We find from the evidence of PW-2, PW- 3, PW-4 and PW-5 that <S6>the deceased was subjected to harassment by the appellants in connection with demands of TV, sofa set, electric press, sewing machine, tables and chairs, utensils and cash of rs.20,000/- for recruitment of Devinder and rs.15,000/- for construction of house.</S6>

Moreover, in this case, <S6>there is evidence to show that Roshni, the appellant no.3, also caused harassment to the deceased in connection with demand of dowry.</S6>


In the facts of the present case, we find that PW-7, the Medical Officer of the Civil Hospital, examined the case of the deceased on 1992 at 30 A.M.
and he has clearly stated in his evidence that on examination she was conscious and that there were superficial to deep burns all over the body except some areas on feet, face and perineum and there was smell of kerosene on her body.
He also stated in his evidence that the deceased was brought to the hospital by her husband Kala Ram (appellant no.1).
He has proved the bed- head ticket pertaining to the deceased in the hospital (Ext.
DD) as well as his endorsement at Point A on Ext.
DD, from which it is clear that he was told by the patient herself that she sustained burns while cooking meals on a stove.
This statement of the deceased recorded by PWs is relevant under Section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 which provides that statements, written or verbal, of relevant facts made by a person who is dead, are themselves relevant facts when the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that persons death comes into question.
Moreover, the appellant no.1 in his statement under Section 313, Cr.
P.C.
, has stated: On that day of the alleged occurrence Krishna deceased was preparing tea and incidentally caught fire.
I extinguished the fire, as a result of which I received burn injuries and immediately brought her to General Hospital, Sonepat, and on the advice of the M.O.
I was taking her for better treatment to Delhi but unfortunately she died.

