
The prosecution case in a nutshell is that one Smt.
Leelavati was married to the appellant on 1989 and was living in the house of the appellant at Konanakunte in Bangalore.
Besides attending the household chores, she was gainfully employed in a private company.
Even according to the Appellant, there used to be wordy altercations between him and the deceased since about the three months before her death (at the age of 28 years).
These altercations between him and the deceased, according to the appellant, were regarding there being no indication of her becoming pregnant after the marriage.
Further case of the prosecution is that before marriage of the deceased with the appellant, negotiations were held, wherein the appellant had demanded dowry in the form of cash amounting to Rs 15,000/- as well as gold and silver ornaments.
Pursuant to such demand made by the appellant, it is stated that a part of the dowry amount was given to the appellant before marriage and a further amount was given to him at the time of the marriage.
All the ornaments demanded by the appellant, except a pair of gold bangles, were given to the appellant.
The balance of dowry was agreed or promised to be given after the marriage.
The appellant was also in the habit of consuming liquor.
<S6>After marriage, the deceased had been subjected to mental and physical torture over certain issues including the one for demand of balance of dowry.</S6>
3.
<S6>The deceased had complained to her brother and sister as well as to her brother-in-law about the ill-treatment meted out on her by the appellant and ultimately, the deceased being unable to bear any more torture of the appellant, committed suicide by setting herself on fire</S6> in their house at about 5:00 AM on 16-3-1990 i.e.
, within a year of marriage.


12.
Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent-State of Karnataka submitted that prior to the marriage, the appellant had demanded dowry in the form of cash and ornaments etc.
and PWs.
1 to 3 have consistently spoken about the demand and acceptance of dowry and also about <S6>the deceased being subjected to mental and physical cruelties by the appellant in their house.</S6>
<S6>After the marriage, the appellant was coercing his wife to bring the balance of dowry and she being unable to bear the torture had committed suicide.</S6>
The appellant had even pledged the ornaments that were given to the deceased at the time of marriage.


Admittedly, the marriage was solemnized on 1989 and the incident took place on 1990 i.e.
within a period of eleven months only.
From the evidence it reveals that the <S6>altercation between the appellant and the deceased started three months before the incident</S6> when there was no indication of the deceased becoming pregnant after marriage.
According to the prosecution, before the marriage of the deceased with the appellant, negotiations were held with regard to the demand of dowry in the form of cash as well as gold and silver ornaments.
It further reveals that part of the dowry amount was given to the appellant before marriage and further amount was given at the time of marriage.
The prosecution further led evidence that the appellant was in the habit of consuming liquor and further <S6>the deceased had been subjected to physical and mental cruelty over certain issues including demand of balance dowry.</S6>
The deceased being not in a position to bear more torture and cruelty pertaining to demand of dowry committed suicide by setting herself on fire.
The sister, brother and sisters husband of the deceased along with other witnesses had been examined as PWs 1, 2 and 3, who have consistently deposed about the demand and acceptance of dowry and also about the <S6>deceased being subjected to mental and physical cruelty by the appellant in their house.</S6>
