
Marriage between Appellant no.
1 and Smt.
Sunita was solemnised in April, Smt.
Sunita committed suicide on 1991 i.e.
within three years of the marriage.
This led to the prosecution of the two appellants as well as father and sister of Appellant no.
1 under Sections 304-B and 498-A of Indian Indian Penal Code, 1860, 1860 (Indian Penal Code, 1860).
2.
We may mention that as per the prosecution, just before her death, she even gave a statement which was recorded as exhibit P.
After her death, it was treated as dying declaration and case was registered against the accused persons.


7.
As per Rameshwar Dayal (P.W.1), <S6>whenever his daughter Sunita used to come to Guna she would say that her parents in law had persistent demand for gold chain.</S6>
In the month of Shravan in the year 1989, they had come to Jaora to take the daughter then her mother-in-law had beaten her in his presence.
Rameshwar Dayal has also said that <S6>it was guessed from the letters of the girl that her husband and parents in law were harassing her.</S6>
8.
Ashok Sharma (PW.
7) stated that he was sent a letter exhibit P.5 by his sister to him.
Rameshwar Dayal has also stated letters exhibit P.3 and P4 to have been written by Sunita.
It is revealed from the statement of Ashok Sharma that <S6>Sunita had told him in Guna and Sagar that in laws had demanded gold chain and money.</S6>
Also, <S6>she was troubled in her in-laws house.</S6>
Ashok Sharma had met Sunita about one and half months before death when she had gone to Sagar.
9.
Ram Behari Lal Sharma (P.W.4) is the mousa of deceased Sunita.
The police had prepared the map of the place of occurrence in his presence.
The police had seized letters exhibit P3, P4 and P5 from Ram Behali Lal Sharma.
Ram Behari Lal Sharma had got the information of burning of Sunita when he was in school.
Thereupon, he reached the spot and later on he had gone to Sunita in the Hospital.



The <S6>letter exhibit P/8 available on record also amply proved that the deceased was being treated with cruelty.</S6>

Besides their testimony is duly supported by written documents, letters exhibit P1, P3, P4 and P5 by the deceased Sunita.
The fact that Rameshwar Dayal PW- 1 has stated in his deposition that <S6>accused Sohanbai had slapped his daughter in his presence</S6> is corroborated by letter exhibit P5 to the brother that she (deceased Sunita) was aboused in front of her father who had watched helplessly and the situation could never be rectified.

She forced Appellant no.
1 to close the said businesections The fact that the said business was closed at the instance of the deceased and/or her brother is clear from the letter dated 1989 written by Ashok Kumar Sharma, the brother of the deceased to Appellant no.
1's family, wherein he wrote:- Ch.
Satish ji how your business is going on.
You had told to close the shop.
How it is going on? LL.B result would have not been out yet.
In another letter dated 1989 the deceased brother Ashok Kumar Sharma had written to the deceased - How the shop is functioning.
The shop must have been closed.
After closing of the shop, Appellant no.
1 and the deceased, who was a graduate, took job as teachers in private school as is evident from the statement of Rameshwar Dayal Sharma P.W.1, the father of the deceased, himself.
Further at the instance of the deceased, Appellant no.
1 started living separately from his parents.
This was done at the advice of the deceased brother Ashok Kumar Sharma, who has admitted this in his statement.
The deceased lost her job.
This is evident from exhibit D-6 wherein P.W.
7 Ashok Kumar Sharma, brother of deceased had asked Sunita to prepare a certificate of domicile of any district of Madhya Pradesh and send the same to him.
Mr.
Jain argued that this letter also shows that deceased's brother was also trying to find a job for the deceased.
On account of losing the job by the deceased, Appellant no.
1 and the deceased trapped in a financial crisis.
With the meager income as primary school teacher in private school, it was difficult for Appellant no.
1 to carry on the family.
On account of financial crisis Appellant no.
1 again came back to his parents, as is evident from the testimony of P.W.1 Rameshwar Dayal Sharma, father of the deceased.
He thus, argued that it is this financial crisis which led the deceased go into depression.
Otherwise, various letters written by the relatives show their cordial relations.



There is no dispute about the fact that Smt.
Sunita committed suicide on 1991 by pouring kerosene on her person and then putting herself on fire.
Marriage between her and Appellant no.
1 was solemnised sometime in April Thus, this incident had occurred within a period of 3 years from the date of marriage.
Since it is within 7 years of the marriage, presumption under Section 304 B of Indian Penal Code, 1860.
will stand attracted if the ingredients of the said Section are established.
27.
In the statement, the deceased had given the description of the incident namely the manner in which she committed suicide.
<S6>She has also given the reason for taking such a step and described the behaviour of her in laws towards her.</S6>
There is a <S6>specific allegation that her mother-in-law (Appellant no.
2) and Sister-in-law used to tease her on the ground that her parents had not given gold chain and they used to fight on account of dowry.</S6>
This fact was known to her father.
She had stated that she was putting an end to her life on account of continuous fight.
She has also stated that <S6>her husband (Appellant no.
1) has come under the influence of her mother-in-law because of which he would beat her up</S6>, but otherwise he was innocent.





It, thus, stands established that <S6>there was continuous dowry demand by Appellant no.
2, mother-in-law of the deceased and Appellant no.
2 was even treating her with cruelty for not fulfilling this demand.</S6>
