
As per the prosecution case, Poonam - a young girl having post- graduate degree to her credit, was married to A-1 on At the relevant time, A-1 was working as sub-inspector in Delhi Police.
In the marriage, Pooam's parents spent around rs.50 lacs.
An amount of rs.
50 lacs was paid in cash to the appellant (A-1) for purchasing a car and the remaining amount was spent on gifts and other expenses.
6.
<S6>After a week of the marriage, A-1 made a telephone call to the parents of Poonam and demanded several items - such as furniture etc.</S6>
, which, according to A-1, were not given in marriage.
On 2002, when A-1 visited Poonam's parents house, collected the demanded items.
During that time, the appellant(A-1) also complained to them that Sarris given to his relatives in the marriage were of inferior quality and, therefore, <S6>they should pay a sum of rs.20,000/- in cash in lieu thereof.</S6>
Though Poonam's parents tried their best to convince A-1 that they did their best looking to their financial capacity in the marriage and now it may not be possible for them to satisfy his demands but<S6> A-1 did not agree and threatened that if they do not satisfy his demands, he will not keep Poonam with him.</S6>
7.
After sometime, on 2002, <S6>Poonams parents (complainant) went to the house of A-1 and tried to persuade him and his parents to give up new demands, which included money for purchasing a flat in Delhi.</S6>
However, out of sheer compulsion, Poonam's parents agreed to pay the amount as demanded at the earliest.
On this assurance, A-1 said that they can take Poonam with them and when money is sent, she can come to matrimonial home.
Then Poonam returned to parental home with her parents.
On 2002/2002, A-1 made a telephone call to Poonam reminding her of payment for purchasing a flat in Delhi and in lieu of saris.
<S6>Due to persistent illegal demands by A-1, Poonam became tense and on 2002 at about 30/00 AM, she committed suicide in her room by consuming poison.</S6>
She was taken to civil hospital in an unconscious condition where doctor declared her dead at 45 AM.

During the investigation, the police recovered one 3-pages hand written letter (Ex.
PA) from Poonam's bedroom.
On 2002, Dr.
Satija (P.W.10) conducted post mortem and found no injury on the body of the deceased.
During examination, stomach and its contents were sent for chemical examination.
A piece of small intestine, a piece of large intestine, a piece of liver, spleen and kidney with their contents were also sent for chemical examination.
The report of the chemical examiner (Ex-PT) revealed that Poonam consumed poison (aluminum phosphide), which caused her death.


Firstly, Poonam committed suicide and died within one month of her marriage.
This event attracted rigor of Section 304-B read with Section 498-A Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 113-B of the Evidence Act, Secondly, her death was due to persistent illegal demands of dowry made by the appellant one after the other to Poonam and to her parents.
Thirdly, the death of Poonam had a direct nexus with demand of dowry duly proved by evidence and <S6>Poonam's suicide note (EX-PA) mentioning therein the reasons, which compelled her to end her life.</S6>
Fourthly, the suicide note was duly proved to be in the handwriting of the deceased; fifthly, defence witnesses were not able to demolish or weaken the prosecution case on any of these material issues and lastly, in the light of these established facts, a clear case under Section 304-B read with Section 498-B of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 113-B of the Evidence Act for drawing presumption as to dowry death under Section 304-B was made out against the appellant.
