
Krishnabai (deceased) was the daughter of Malu (PW-1) and Bhagwan Dhavele.
She was married to one Hanmant Taralkar on After marriage, Krishnabai was living with her husband and parents-in-law at Ichalkaranji, a nearby village.
The present appellant (accused no.
1) is the mother-in-law of Krishnabai (deceased) whereas (accused no.
2)-Balabai aged around 18 years is her sister-in-law.
4.
It is the case of prosecution that the appellant <S6>(accused no.
1) and Balabai (accused no.
2) used to constantly treat Krishnabai with cruelty by beating or/and ill-treating her because she had not brought any gold, cash, new clothes etc.
with her in marriage and also pressurized her to bring gold, cash, new clothes etc.
from her parents.</S6>
On coming to know of this, Malu (PW-1)-mother of Krishnabai had gone to meet Krishnabai thrice and requested the appellant-accused no.1 to permit Krishnabai to go along with her for few days but she did not allow her to go.
5.
However, on 1990, Gangadhar, father-in-law, took Krishnabai (deceased) to her parents house.
On reaching there, <S6>Krishnabai started weeping and told her mother (PW-1) about the ill-treatment meted out to her by the appellant-accused no.1 and her sister- in-law (accused no.2) because she did not bring any cash, gold and new clothes in marriage.</S6>
She also complained that her husband never paid any attention to such behavior of his mother-the appellant and sister towards her.
On 1990, Malu (PW- 1) and the neighbour-Amirbi (PW-2) took Krishnabai to her husband's place.
On reaching there, the <S6>appellant herein started quarreling with them and began to beat Krishnabai with 'chappal'.</S6>
On seeing this, Gangadhar-the appellant's husband intervened and asked her not to beat krishnabai.
The appellant did not like the interference made by her husband and pushed him aside.
Amirbi also tried to persuade the appellant not to do such things but the appellant did not listen to her.
Malu and Amirbai, PWs 1 & 2 respectively, then returned to their village leaving Krishnabai there.
6.
On 1990 after 00 p.m.
, one unknown person came to Malu's house and informed her that Krishnabai is serious.
On hearing this news, Malu and some other people immediately left to see Krishnabai.
On their reaching there, they found that many people had gathered in front of Krishnabai's house.
The door of the room was closed from outside.
Sharda- the daughter of accused no.1, opened the door and PW-1- the mother of the deceased went inside the room and saw that <S6>Krishnabai was lying dead with burn injuries on her body.</S6>
7.
Report of the said incident was lodged by Mhalaba, uncle of Krishnabai (deceased) and son-in-law of accused no.1, who too had accompanied Malu that Krishnabai had committed suicide by immolating herself.
Thereafter the dead body of the deceased was taken to nearby Hospital where post-mortem examination was conducted.
The autopsy surgeon reported that Krishnabai died due to shock because of 100% burn injuries.
Malu (PW-1), the mother of the deceased, then lodged another report at the police station on 1990 about the incident.

