
The case of the Prosecution is that the marriage between Truptiben (the deceased) and the appellant no.3 herein took place on Truptiben was the daughter of one Kantilal Dhanjibhai Karia of District Rajkot in Gujarat.
After the marriage, Truptiben was residing in a joint family with her in-laws appellant Nos.1 and 2 and her husband appellant no.3 at Morbi, Gujarat.
Out of the said wedlock, a girl named Gopi was born.
On 2000 at around 1130 Hrs, while Kantilal Dhanjibhai Karia was discharging his duties in the Bank of Baroda at Rajkot, he received a telephonic message from Appellant no.1, that his daughter is hanging by the fan and that he may immediately come to Morbi.
Kantilal Dhanjibhai Karia informed about the said telephonic message to his nearest relatives and thereafter, they all proceeded towards Morbi.
In the meantime, Appellant no.1 had informed about the said incident to Morbi City Police Station.
The P.S.O, who was on duty at the relevant time, made the relevant entry in the Station Register and directed the ASI to investigate the matter.
The ASI went to the scene of the offence and carried out preliminary investigation.
He recorded the statement of Appellant no.1 and thereafter, sent a yaadi to the P.S.O to register the incident as an accidental death, which came to be registered as A.D.
no.16/ Thereafter, investigation into the said incident was taken over by Police Inspector Mr.
Jaynarayan Rameshwar Srivastav.
The Investigating Officer informed Kantilal Dhanjibhai Karia, the father of the deceased, of the said incident and in return he asked the Investigating Officer not to disturb the position of the dead body of his daughter till he arrives at Morbi.
The said Kantilal Dhanjibhai Karia, the father of the deceased arrived at 1500 Hrs on the same day.
He felt something fishy behind the death of her daughter Truptiben, as <S6>the appellants had demanded dowry several times in the past</S6>, which was further strengthened by the fact that none of the appellants were present in the house at the relevant point of time.
On the same day, i.e on 2000, in the evening hours, a criminal complaint with regard to the said incident was filed by the father of the deceased against the appellants, which ultimately, came to be registered as I-C.R no.
92/2000 for offence punishable under Sections 498-A, 304-B & 306 read with Section 114 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.
The body of the deceased was taken off the fan and sent for post-mortem examination.

The witnesses PW-1 , PW-8 and PW-9 stated that the <S6>deceased used to complain about the mental torture and harassment frequently meted out to her by the accused due to the insufficient dowry provided during the marriage.</S6>
This evidence was supported by PW-7, the friend of the deceased who stated that the <S6>deceased had informed her that she was subject to frequent mental torture and harassment by the accused for bringing less dowry.</S6>

The evidence led by the complainant (PW-1), the elder sister (PW-8) and the grandfather of the deceased (PW-9) gets support from the evidence led by (PW-7) who are the friend and relatives of the deceased.

We would like to conclude that going by the version provided by PW-1, PW-7, PW-8 and PW-9, there is a reasonable apprehension of the crime committed by the accused.
In the present case, it has been established from the versions of PW-1, PW-7, PW-8 and PW-9 that <S6>there was a demand for dowry and the deceased was being mentally harassed.</S6>
