The story of the deceased young lady, aged about 25 years who was forced to commit suicide by the unfortunate situation and circumstances surrounding her life, resembles the tale of so many similar young ladies who end their life due to untold miseries and hardships faced by them within the confines of the four walls of their matrimonial home.
All of them enter such home with hope of leading a long and blissful married life but this hope, invariably, does not last long, nor their life.
In the present case the victim left behind a son then aged about ten months and she was also mothering a life of twenty weeks in her womb.
The deceased Rekha @ Baby was married with the appellant on 1991 and immediately she began her stay in matrimonial home with her husband and in-laws and a son was also born to them who on the date of her death i.e.
1993 was aged about ten months.
There is no dispute regarding her death and even as per the Unnatural Death Report (UDR) exhibit exhibitP.20, lodged by the appellant with the local police station on 1993 at 45 a.m, she died of some poison which she had consumed allegedly because the appellant forbade her from going to her mothers place in the morning hours of As described in the said report, the victim had consumed a poison which was kept for spray in the fields.
She had been taken to hospital but expired there at around 8 a.m.
As per version of the occurrence given by the appellant, the deceased and he were living a very happy life.
He was satisfied with the money and gold given at the time of marriage as dowry and was apparently at a loss as to why the deceased consumed poison.

Dr.
M.R.
Shetty, PW-8 has proved the postmortem report.
He has deposed that he conducted the autopsy on the deceased in the afternoon of 1993 along with another Doctor and found the following wounds on the dead body: 1.
Transverse contusion across the lower part of the rt.
Thigh 2 above the knee joint 2 in length.
2.
Haematoma 6 x 3 on the lower part of the left thigh with abrasion of different sizes on it; 3.
Abrasion on the rt.
Lumbar region 2-1/2; 4.
Abrasion on the back of the rt.
Thigh 2-1/2; 5.
Multiple small abrasions on the rt.
Hand of different sizes; and 6.
Blood strained fluid from the nostrils.
He had found a twenty weeks embryo in the womb of the deceased.
He deposed that as per subsequent chemical lab report of the viscera, the death was because of consumption of Organo phosphorous chemical.
The Doctor has also deposed that <S6>the wounds were ante-mortem caused by hard and blunt object</S6> but they did not cause the death.

He found that <S6>the deceased was getting continuous ill-treatment by her husband.</S6>
He has deposed to the extent that the <S6>deceased requested PW-7 not to disclose the ill-treatment to her mother because she would get upset.</S6>

