16 Praveen Chandra was the Divisional Forest officer of Sirsi Division during the relevant period.
On 1988 at about 00 p.m.
he received a phone call from an annonymous caller that at night at about 00 a.m.
(1988) there was likelihood of a lorry transporting forest produce from Manjuguni side and the same person called P.W.
16 half an hour later and informed him that his officials would do well to be Present near Kambigar cross at about 00 p.m.
itself.
Accordingly, P.W.16 summoned the deceased Arvind Hegde, the concerned Forest Range Officer to meet him to take instructions in connection with the above- said phone call.
The deceased met P.W.16 at about 3O p.m.
on 1988 and he was asked by P.W.16 to keep a watch at the Kambigar Cross to intercept the lorry that was expected to transport illegally cut forest fuel wood.
The deceased was also instructed to take necessary staff with him for his assistance.
The revolver in the custody of P.W.
16 was also handed over to the deceased.
The deceased further directed the forest guards to place heavy stones across the road to block free passage to the lorry.
MYE In spite of the deceased signalling the lorry to stop, it fled away avoiding the stones kept on the road.
The deceased fired at it with his revolver, but the bullet could not release.
P.W.
2 also fired from his gun, but it missed the target, namely, the wheel tyre of the vehicle.
Thereafter the deceased and his men followed the lorry in their car and the lorry having gone near the house of one Neelkantha Hegde stopped in front of it.
A-11 was driving the lorry and there were 4 persons in the lorry.
All of them got down and ran to the house of Neelknatha Hegde.
Neelkantha Hegde, his sons, namely, A-1, A-3, A-4 and A-10 as well as his Uncle's sons, namely A-2, A-5, A-8 and A-9 were all in the house and they came out of the house on seeing the lorry.
The deceased informed the accused who came out of the house the A-11 had driven the lorry without stopping the same in spite of signal was given to stop the same.
The deceased called upon them to produce any permit if they had to cut and carry jungle wood.
The accused replied in the negative.
When the deceased informed them that the lorry would be seized, all the accused protested that they would not allow him to seize the lorry, but wanted to unload the wood.
In spite of the deceased repeatedly informing them about the various forest offences committed and about the information they had already got and instructions given by P.W.
16, the accused did not allow the deceased to discharge his official duty.
Realising the situation, the deceased asked P.W.
5 to inform P.W.
16 on phone about the happenings there.
The deceased also asked P.W.
4 to go Sirsi and bring P.W.
16 to the spot.
Sensing the gravity of the situation, A-4, A-6 and A-7 told the other accused that before the arrival of P.W.
16, the lorry must be removed from that place for the purpose of unloading the fuel elsewhere.
The deceased was also equally determined to carry out his job.
The deceased and P.W.
1 stood in front of the lorry on its left side and P.W.
2 stood on the right side.
While so, A-1 occupied the driver's seat, A-8 and A-10 sat by his side in the cabin.
<S1>When A-1 started the engine, A-4, A-6 and A-7 dragged the forest guards aside and tore their uniform.</S1>
<S1>A-2 and A-6 snatched the gun from P.W.</S1>
A-7 snatched the gun held by P.W.
When the accused attempted to drive the lorry, the deceased who was standing in front of it climbed over the crashguard in front of the vehicle.
<S1>A-2, A-3, A-5 and A-9 climbed into the body of the vehicle.</S1>
A-1 started the vehicle while the deceased was standing on the crashguard.
The guard and the foresters followed the lorry running and at that time A-11 (who drove the lorry in the first instance) emerged from his hiding and shouted that as they were always facing obstructions from the forest guards they should be killed.
The lorry thus went to a distance of about 11/2 further longs on that forest road then came to a halt near yantalli Crosections When the lorry was at that Cross, the forest guards heard the voice of the deceased that he was being killed.
<S1>A-1, A-8 and A-10 got down from the cabin of the vehicle and A-8 started assaulting the deceased with a jungle wood.</S1>
<S1>All the accused had surrounded the deceased and when the Guards reached the spot, they left the place saying that everything was over.</S1>
The shirt that the deceased was wearing, one of the shoes, his rovolver with belt, his waist belt were all lying near him and he was lying with blood injuries and was found dead.

