Tola Ram son of Sidhu (since deceased) was the resident of village Lorwas.
Ramesh (PW 3), Prabhu, Rattan, Daya Ram (PW 4), Bondu and Bheru are the sons of Tola Ram.
A month prior to the date of incident i.e.
October 24, 1984, Ramesh (PW 3), his brother Prabhu and their two friends were sitting under a mango tree at about 00 a.m.
Kodar Mal (A- 6) was passing by the said mango tree when Ramesh (PW 3) and his companions teased him (A-6) by saying`Topiwale Darbar Ek Bidi De Do'.
A-6 felt offended and alleged to have given fist and kick blows to Ramesh.
On intervention of Jaggu, the matter ended there but A-6 threatened them that he will deal with Ramesh in a short while.
October 24, 1984, happened to be the Diwali Day and at about 00 p.m.
, Ramesh (PW 3) was going to the house of Badri Lal Kulmi to colour the cattle.
Bheru and Bondu, other two brothers were also going with him to colour the bullocks of Jagdish.
<S1>When they came near the chowk, Prem Singh (A-1) and Kodar Mal (A-6) surrounded Ramesh and told him that now they would tell him how the `Topiwala Darbar' was? A-1 and A-6 assaulted Ramesh (PW 3) with lathis as a result of which he fell down and then he was dragged by these two accused persons, catching hold of his legs.</S1>
<S1>Bondu then called his brother Daya Ram who tried to rescue Ramesh when he was given lathi blows on his head by these two accused persons.</S1>
In the meantime, Tola Ram Reached that place whereupon Raja Ram (A-2) gave a lalkara that Tola Ram should be finished.
<S1>Narain Singh (A-3), Bheru Singh (A-4), Dhan Singh (A-5) and Kodar Mal (A-6) caught hold of Tola Ram whereupon Prem Singh (A-1) and Narain Singh (A-3) assaulted him with lathi and farsi.</S1>
Tola Ram sustained bleeding injuries and fell down whereupon Ramesh (PW 3) and his other companions ran away out of fear.
After a shortwhile, Kanchan Bai and her husband Ganpat alongwith Ramesh (PW 3) came to the place of occurrence, lifted Tola Ram and brought him to his house.
Since it was night time, they could not secure a bullock cart to take Tola Ram to the police station at Shahjahpur.

