The occurrence giving rise to this appeal is alleged to have taken place on 20th April, The case of the prosecution is that the deceased Jayavelu purchased 83 acres of land in Survey no.56/1 in Renukapuram from Murugesa Mudaliar and Savithri.
However, appellant no.1 herein who was the cultivating tenant of the aforesaid land was obstructing delivery of possession of the land to the deceased who had purchased this land.
Panchayat had been convened which had decided that half of the land should be retained by the deceased purchaser and the other half should be given to appellant no.1 who should pay the price thereof within three months.
Appellant no.1 did not pay the price of half portion of the land, and continued in possession of the entire plot.
On the evening of 19th April, 1991, the deceased attempted to plough the said plot which was in possession of appellant no.1, but the appellant no.1 protested, which compelled the deceased to stop ploughing that land.
After this incident the deceased went away.
However, at about 00 a.m.
on 20th April, 1991, the deceased along with PWs.
1, 2, 3 and Sikamani again went to plough the land and commenced agricultural operations.
PWs 2 and 3 were the daughters of the deceased while Sikamani (not examined) was his son.
PW 1 is the husband of PW When Sikamani was ploughing the land, PW 1 stood on the ridge and PWs 2 and 3 were manuring the land.
On coming to know of this the appellants and accused 5 and 6 (since acquitted), came and protested against the ploughing of the land which was in possession of the appellants.
<S1>The prosecution allegation is that appellants no.1 to 4 had carried spade, crowbar, knife etc.</S1>
while accused 5 and 6 came unarmed.
Appellant no.1 prevented the deceased from ploughing the land even though the deceased offered to pay the price of the land.
<S1>The case of the prosecution is that thereafter appellant Nos.1 to 4 assaulted the deceased with their weapons while accused 5 and 6 gave him blows with their fists.
When PWs 1, 2, 3 and Sikamani intervened to save the deceased they were also assaulted.
Sikamani was assaulted by appellant no.1 and accused Nos.
5 and 6.
<S1>PW 2 was similarly assaulted by appellant Nos.1, 3 and 4 while appellants no.5 and 6 gave her fist blows.</S1>
<S1>PW 3 was assaulted by appellants 1, 2 and 3 while PW 1 was assaulted by all the appellants and accused 5 and 6 since acquitted.</S1>
As a result of the assault PWs 1, 2, 3 as well as Jayavelu (deceased) suffered bleeding injuries and fell down.
PW 6, daughter of the deceased, who was a little away from the place of occurrence saw the accused running away with their respective weapons, and also saw the injured lying in the field with bleeding injuries.
She, with the help of PW 4 and one other person, removed the injured to the Government hospital at Vellore.
The injured were examined at the Government hospital, Vellore by the Medical Officer, PW- He examined the deceased at about 15 a.m.
and his report is exhibitP PWs 1, 2 and 3 were also examined by him and their injury reports are Exs.
P [22, P 17](/cgi-bin/LawCite?cit=22%20P%2017) and P 19 respectively.
It is not disputed that Jayavelu died shortly after his admission.

