, Rajendra Yadav, the informant, (PW-10), who is the brother of the deceased Sotilal Yadav, had gone to see the standing Kerao crop on his land and noticed the first accused Lal Bachan Yadav (A-1), son of Shibu Yadav (A-3), stealthily uprooting the crops, resulting in a scuffle between them when he caught hold of A- On hearing the hullas raised at that time both by PW-10 and A-1, the deceased, his father Laxmi Yadav (since deceased) and Ram Kishore Yadav (PW-5) as also the accused and some others, arrived at the spot.
In the process of exchanging abuses and hot words, when a demand was made by other accused to release A-1, the deceased refused to do so without having a Panchayati in the Village for the incident.
The accused were said to have got enraged on this and Ram Prasad Yadav (A-5) was said to have exhorted the other accused stating "Shela badmash hai, use jan se mar do".
On this, Jagdish Yadav (A-4), the son of A-5, standing on the bandh was said to have assaulted the deceased with Bhala on the right side of the neck, which caused a punctured wound 1"x1/4" X 1" piercing through the sub interior tissues upto upper hole of right lung.
When the deceased fell down, A-3 also assaulted him with a Bhala on his back causing an incised wound 1"x1/2" X 1/4" on left lower part of the back.
Malhu Yadav (A-2) was also said to have assaulted him on his head with lathi portion of Bhala causing a lacerated wound 1"x1" upto one on right side of head.
<S1>Brij Kishore Yadav (A-7) was stated to have assaulted him with lathi on his head causing one lacerated wound 1 " x " upto bone over middle of head and A-5 gave a blow with lathi on back causing bruise 4" x 1" on lower part of the back.</S1>
Sotilal Yadav was said to have died on the spot due to the above injuries.
Laxmi Yadav, father of the deceased, and Ram Kishan Yadav (PW-5), father-in- law of the deceased, when tried to lend support by lifting the deceased, Raj Kumar Yadav (A-6) was said to have assaulted Laxmi Yadav with Farsa on his head as well as on his both hands causing incised wound and A-2 also was said to have assaulted him with Bhala on his right eye brow.
<S1>A-5 was said to have assaulted PW-5 with lathi on his left hand fingers and right fore arm causing laceration, bruise and fracture injuries.</S1>
<S1>A-7 was also said to have assaulted him with lathi on his back causing bruise.</S1>
<S1>A-6 was attributed with an act of assaulting PW-10 which made him let loose A-1 held by him and go and stand at a distance of ten laggas from the place of occurrence.</S1>
In the course of occurrence as well as hullas raised, one Kailu Yadav (since dead), Sukhdev Yadav (said to be gained over) Uttim Yadav (PW-6) and others were said to have arrived on the spot and saw the occurrence.
A-1, in spite of all this, was alleged to have taken away the uprooted 'kerao'.
PW-6 and his mother (wife of Ram Kishan Yadav) were said to have taken Laxmi Yadav and Ram Kishan Yadav to Hospital for the treatment on Tonga and PW-10 along with Awadh Yadav (PW-6) and Kailu Yadav were said to have brought the dead body of Sotilal Yadav to Kilaghat Police Station (Sadar P.S.
) at about 30 p.m.

