The injured persons and the accused persons are residents of these two localities and were known to each other since before the incident.
An acute rivalry prevails between the two groups.
Prior to this incident on the festival of Janmashtami there was a competitive game played known as Dahi Handi, also known as 'Govinda', wherein both the gangs had participated and quarrelled with each other.
The present incident took place on 27th September, 1991 at about 30 p.m.
There is a four-storeyed building the ground-floor whereof is occupied by a restaurant known as 'Sanket Bar'.
There is a road in front of the hotel.
The door leading to the way for upper floors of the building is by the side of the hotel.
There is a pan shop near the hotel.
By the side of the hotel there are other shops providing the look of a commercial complex.
Gopikrishna, who died in the incident, was standing in front of the entrance door of the building.
Jaideep Bhosale, PW3 and Dyandeo Sawant, PW4 were standing near Gopikrishna.
The three were busy talking to each other.
At a little distance from there one Sanjay Patil, PW1 was standing.
Apparently, Sanjay Patil and the trio consisting of Jaideep, Dyandeo and Gopikrishna had nothing to do with each other.
Sanjay, PW1 saw all the eight appellants coming towards the hotel.
The accused persons passed by his side and reached the place where the three persons including Gopikrishna were chit-chatting.
<S1>The accused persons were armed with naked weapons such as swords, choppers and gupti.</S1>
<S1>As soon as they reached near Gopikrishna they opened an assault on all the three persons standing there.</S1>
Jaideep and Dyandeo ran away from the place.
Gopikrishna tried to escape for his life by running towards the door providing access to the staircase leading to upper floors of the building.
He went on running upto the fourth floor leaving a trail of blood behind.
<S1>The accused persons chased him and injured him fatally.</S1>
He fell down in a pool of blood on the landing of the fourth floor.
Sanjay, PW1 apprehended that he may be assaulted and injured.
He tried to run away from the place of the incident.
<S1>He was noticed by the appellants; some of them followed him and inflicted injuries on his person.</S1>
<S1>The appellants then shouted loudly so as to create terror in the locality.</S1>
The frightened neighbours downed the shutters of their shops and houses.
The appellants ran away.
Sanjay, PW1 picked up a taxi and proceeded to KEM hospital for medical help and treatment.
In the meantime the witnesses Jaideep and Dyandeo returned to the place of the incident.
They reached the fourth floor and found Gopikrishna lying injured and bleeding profusely.
They brought him down and removed him to KEM hospital where he was declared dead.

