Briefly stated the facts of this case are that on 94 P.W.-10, Yogendra Raut, at about 45 p.m.
lodged Fardbeyan (Ex.
P-5) in Police Station Sidhwalia stating therein that about 17 days from the said date his relative of Paithanpatti, P.S.
Majha, had purchased a she-buffalo from one Sattan Choudhary, belonging to his village, for a sum of rs.6,800/-.
His relative had a sum of rs.700/- short of the full payment of the price of the she-buffalo, but on his request, the balance amount was to be paid later on.
His younger brother brought a sum of rs.400/- from his relative.
On the day of occurrence, i.e.
94, at about 45 p.m.
Maniraj Choudhary (A-3), son of Sattan Choudhary, called Yogendra Raut at his house when he gave a sum of rs.400/- to Sattan Choudhary and promised to pay the balance amount of rs.
300/- on the following day.
Maniraj Choudhary (A-3) took out a country-made pistol and pointed towards him.
He shouted for help, which attracted his family members at the house of Sattan Choudhary.
He came to his house along with his family members and later on took their dinner.
His father, Brahmdeo Raut (PW-5), and his brother came out of their house and started going to Bathan.
<S1>As soon as they reached mid-way from Bathan suddenly Bunnilal Chaudhary (A-1), Birendra Chaudhary (A-2), Maniraj Chaudhary (A-3), Dashrath Chaudhary (A-4), Magister Chaudhary (A-5), Bali Choudhary (A-6), Jagdish Chaudhary (A-7), Amarjit Chaudhary (A-8), Naresh Choudhary (A-9) and Rajdhari Chaudhary (A-10) holding a revolver and lathis in their hands came at the scene of occurrence and surrounded them.</S1>
<S1>His younger brother, Shambhu Raut, reached there and all the accused persons chased him upto some distance when Bunnilal Choudhary (A-1) attacked Shambhu Raut with knife at the door of Ambika Ram.</S1>
The blow was given on the left side of the chest.
On seeing the incident, his father, Brahmdeo Raut (P.W.-5), came running to the house of Ambika Ram.
His father was given knife blow on his head by Magister Chaudhary (A-5).
On hearing their noise, many village people gathered at the scene of occurrence and on seeing them, all the accused persons fled away.
His brother, Shambhu Raut, being seriously injured fell down at the door of Ambika Ram and blood was oozing out of the injury sustained by him.
Shambhu Raut who was injured was put on a cot and taken to Sidhwalia Hospital for medical treatment where the Doctor had declared him dead.
He took the dead- body of Shambhu Raut to the Police Station.

