On 1999 Rakesh Kumar Pandey along with his brother-in-law Surya Narain @ Vakil Shukla along with three others, Devi Shankar Dubey, Prem Shanker Dubey and the car driver Shesh Mani were returning from Aurai to Gopiganj in the latters car no.
<S1>WB 26A As the car reached near the Trimuhani on the middle of the road in Gopiganj, accused Udai Bhan Singh, Akbal Bahadur @ Atkoti Singh, Prem Singh, Dhunni Singh, Munni Singh, Daroga Singh, Rajeshwar Upadhyay, Pintoo Singh and two other persons all armed with modern weapons starting firing at the car.</S1>
<S1>The firing led to the death of Surya Narain @ Vakil Shukla, Devi Shanker Dubey and Shesh Mani at the spot.</S1>
Rakesh Kumar Pandey and Prem Shanker who were sitting on the rear seat rushed out of the car to save themselves and they too received some superficial injuries in that procesections The assailants also picked up the licensed rifle of Prem Shanker Dubey which was lying in the car and thereafter ran away from the spot.
The occurrence was also witnessed by Shiv Prasad @ Dangar Tewari, Mukand Lal, Ram Dutt Mishra and several other persons.
A FIR was thereafter lodged by Rakesh Kumar Pandey at 45 p.m.
in Police Station Gopiganj a kilometer away from the place of incident, on which sectionI.
Vidya Prakash Misra reached the place of occurrence and recorded the statement of Rakesh Kumar Pandey whereas SI Rashid Ahmad prepared the inquest reports of the deceased on the dictation of SI Vidya Prakash Misra.
On an inspection of the site, several pieces of glass, a blood stained piece of rexine, and shoes and some fired cartridges, a rifle and a 9 mm pistol licensed to deceased Surya Narain Shukla were recovered.
The bodies were also sent for the post mortem examinations.
The post mortem examination on the dead body of Devi Shanker Dubey was conducted by Dr.
Radhey Raman on 1999 at about 55 p.m.
whereas Dr.
Sanjay Tewari conducted the post mortem examinations on the dead bodies of Shesh Mani at 30 p.m and that on Surya Narain Shukla 45 minutes later i.e.
at 0030 hours.
All three dead bodies showed extensive fire arms injuries.

