It was also alleged in the FIR that in order <S5>to defraud the Bank and to nullify the assurance given to the Bank, M/s Duncans Agro Industries Limited entered into a memorandum of understanding with M/s New Tobacco Company on March 6, 1986 in order to render the very basis of the scheme approved by the High Court infructuous and to complete the delinking of Duncans Agro Industries Limited and New Tobacco Company so that the assets of Duncans Agro Industries Limited would remain out of reach of its creditors.
By such process, the United Bank of India was defrauded.</S5>
It was alleged in the FIR that the <S5>stock worth about rs.12 crores were either fraudulantly of dishonestly removed or disposed of without any payment to the Bank although the same were hypothecated with the Bank.</S5>
In the FIR, it was alleged that Shri G.P.
Goenka, Chairman of M/s Duncans Agro Industries Limited, Shri N.K.
Jain, Director, New Tobacco Company Limited and Shri Bhasker Banerjee, Director, National Tobacco Company along with some Bank Officers, namely credit facilities, a sum of rs.
58 crores was to be financed by the Canara Bank, Lake Road Branch, Calcutta with the concurrence of United Bank of India and Andhra Bank.
Sri G.P.Goenka was one of the Directors of Duncans Agro Industries Ltd and was having the control over the affairs of the said company.
Sri B.
Mukherjee was manager (Accounts) and responsible for preparation of accounts of Tobacco Division and both the said G.P.
Goenka and B.
Mukherjee were also amongst the authorised signatories for operating current account.
It was alleged in the FIR that after getting the sanction of enhanced credit facilities.
Sri G.P.
Goenka, Sri B.
Mukherjee and other officials of Tobacco Division of Duncans Agro Industries Limited entered into a criminal conspiracy to cheat Canara Bank, Lake Road Branch and to obtain credit in their account by falsely and dishonestly declaring that tobacco stocks and stores were available at Guntur for hypothecation to Canara Bank, Lake Road Branch over and above the stocks hypothecated to United Bank of India and Andhra Bank.
Pursuant to the authorities given by the Board of Directors Sri G.P.Goenka executed documents with Canara Bank creating a floating charge of stocks and stores at Guntur valuing 158 Lakhs and B.
mukherjee declared to Canara Bank that tobacco stocks worth rs.1,44,40,122/- were lying at Guntur as on 84 over and above the stocks hypothecated to United Bank and Andhra Bank.
A balance sheet of Tobacco Division of Duncans Industries Limited was prepared under the overall charges of B.
Mukherjee and audited by M/s Price water House and Company, Calcutta, showing total value of stocks and stores of tobacco at rs.12,39,27,19 p.
In the said Balance Sheet, advance against hypothecation in the stocks and stores have been shown Rs,13,78,82,17 from United Bank and Rs,2,27,12,86,350 from Andhra Bank making a total of rs.
16,05,95,17 no.
available stocks were indicated free from any hypothecation.
Sri B.
Mukherjee in the stock statement submitted to United Bank of India declared that value of Tobacco stocks and stores as on 31,3,1984 was rs.16,92,75,446/-.
On the same date, the value of stocks and stores worth more than rs.3 crores was declared to Andhra Bank.
<S5>Thus although no stocks and stores of Tobacco beyond the hypothecated stocks and stores to the said two Banks were available, the officials of the Canara Bank acting upon the documents executed by G.P.Goenka and declaration given by B.
Mukherjee were induced to sanction and release interim loan of rs.
1 crore in April 1984 and balance of rs.
58 lakhs in June </S5> 