M/s Cadbury Schweppes Beverages India Private Ltd.
entered into three identical Bottling Agreements with the complainant, Sanjiva Bottling Company Private Limited on March 1, 1996 pursuant to a Master Trademark License entered into by associate companies of Cadbury Schweppes plc.
United Kingdom and Cadbury Schweppes Beverages India Private Limited.
In terms of these three agreements, M/s Sanjiva Bottling Company was authorised to manufacture and sell certain specified beverages under specified trademarks owned by Cadbury Schweppes plc.
U.K.
or its associate companies.
The agreements contained identical clauses with regard to their respective terms and conditions and provided that they shall continue for an initial term of five years and for further successive period of five years, unless terminated by either party by giving to the other not less than 12 calendar months notice in writing to terminate the agreement.
On July 29, 1999, Atlantic Industries (a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of The Coca-Cola Export Corporation, USA) purchased about 3500 trademarks in 155 countries from Cadbury Schweppes plc.
, upon which the bottling agreements between Cadbury Schweppes Beverages India Pvt.
Ltd.
and Sanjiva Bottling Company were duly assigned to Atlantic Industries and an information regarding the same was given to Sanjiva Bottling Company in writing.
On February 14, 2000, Atlantic Industries gave notice in writing to the complainant, Sanjiva Bottling Company that the bottling agreements shall not be renewed after their expiry on February 28, Sanjiva Bottling Company through its Director, Rajiv Mehta filed a criminal complaint against 11 accused including the appellants in the Court of Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Bhopal on July 24, 2000 for their prosecution under Section 420 read with Section 511 Indian Penal Code, 1860.
The accused no.1 arrayed in the complaint is Cadbury Schweppes Beverages India Pvt.
Ltd.
(A-1) and accused nos.2 to 5 are Chairman, Managing Director and Finance Director etc.
of the said Company.
Besides them, Coca Cola India (A-6), Alex Von Behr, President and Chief Executive Officer (A-7).
Nitin Dalvi, Vice-President, Strategic Business, Planning and Information Services (A-8) and Samip Shah, Vice- President, Business Development of Coca Cola India, (A-8) Ajay Mitra, Regional Operational Director, Hindustan Coca Cola Beverages Pvt.
Ltd.
(A-10) and Steve M.
Whaley, Vice-President and General Tax Counsel, Atlantic Industries (A-11) have been arrayed as accused nos.
6 to The case set up in the complaint is that the complainant is engaged in the business of bottling soft drinks since 1983 at Bhopal.
The complainant was approached by A-1 in 1995 to discontinue its competing brand 'Sprint' and a Memorandum of Understanding was signed on October 9, Thereafter, an agreement was entered into between the complainant and A-1 on March 1, 1996 by which the complainant became one of the bottlers of A-1, made investments in the bottling plant and also promoted the sales of A-1 in its area.
By a letter dated July 29, 1999, A-1 informed the complainant that the brands Schweppes, Crush and Canada Dry and associated brands in India would be acquired by a member of the Coca Cola group of companies.
A-1 had 19 bottlers in the year 1997 but Coca Cola India (A-6) had reduced them to 7 and is installing its own bottling plants in different places.
The case of the complainant further is that by the letter dated February 14, 2000, A-6 informed the complainant that they would not renew the agreements on their expiry on February 28, In paras 47 and 48 of the complaint, it is alleged that <S5>A-6 is adopting all sorts of unfair trade practices and that it has made wrongful gain of over rs.100 crores.</S5>
In para 50, it is alleged that <S5>A-1 and A-6 have not replied properly to the letters of the complainant and the accused have, therefore, cheated the complainant by making false representation.</S5>
The learned Magistrate before whom the complaint was filed passed an order under Section 156 (3) Cr.
P.C.
on July 27, 2000 directing the police to investigate the offence as the same was cognizable offence.
The police thereafter submitted a report on October 31, 2000 which reads as under : "After the entire inquiry it appears that the Cadbury Schweppes Company and Coca Cola Company have violated the terms and conditions of Business Agreement, as a result, <S5>the complainant has suffered financial losections The complainant was kept in darkness and supplied confusing information, consequently, Complainant suffered economic losections Prima facie a case of business competition and violation of Agreements is made out</S5> and the complainant is advised to approach the Civil Court.
