Background facts as projected by appellant in a nutshell are as follows: The appellant-company is a registered company dealing with the sale of auto vehicles at Indore and respondents are Directors of the Chetak Construction Ltd.
a registered company having its Head Office at Chetack Chamber, R.N.T.
Mark, Indore and accused no.3 is the Secretary of that company.
In the year 1988-89 accused approached the complainant company for obtaining lease of Tata dumpers and light commercial vehicles for a specific period on monthly lease rent basis.
Respondents assured complainant company that as per the agreement they will pay monthly lease rent without any default and to support their claim, they will also furnish back guarantee for due performance of the condition of the contract.
In view of that proposal, agreements were executed between the parties on 1988, 1988 and 1989 for delivery of 25 dumpers, 10 dumpers, 20 dumpers and 4 light commercial vehicles and accused persons took the delivery of the aforesaid vehicles from the complainant and also agreed for payment of the monthly lease rent for 36 months.
For the due performance of agreement, necessary documents were executed by the accused persons in favour of the complainant.
After some time, complainant came to know that <S5>accused no.4 was unable to pay him lease rent according to the agreement.</S5>
Then complainant called accused no.1 and 2 to execute personal guarantee bonds in favour of the complainant and after some persuasion, so called personal guarantee bonds were executed by the accused Nos.
1 and 2 in favour of the complainant for due performance of the agreement on They also gave collateral security in favour of the complainant of a property belonging to M/s Choudhary Builders Private Ltd.
and also produced board resolution dated 1990 to the complainant.
<S5>Complainant was unable to get any rent in 2 time from the accused persons and also found that applicants/accused in violation of the condition of the agreement have illegally sold eight vehicles to other parties with ulterior motive, thus committing criminal breach of trust also and had cheated the complainant.</S5>
On these allegations, complainant through its Manager filed a complaint under Sections 420 and 406 Indian Penal Code, 1860 against the respondents.
