The facts leading to filing of this application may be briefly noticed.
3.
The applicant is inter alia engaged in the business of seed cloning and production, nursery development and propagation, plantation management and maintenance and the cultivation of medicinal plants.
On 04 the applicant and the non-applicant 3 entered into seed supply agreement (Supply Agreement) through which the applicant agreed to establish nurseries and prepare seedling (seed) catering to the requirement of non-applicant.
According to the said Agreement the non-applicant promised to make an investment of rs.35 lakhs with the applicant.
The Supply Agreement inter alia contained an arbitration clause 1 which reads as under: " Any dispute that arises between the parties shall be resolved by submitting the same to the institutional arbitration in India under the provisions of [Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996](http://www.liiofindia.org/in/legis/cen/num_act/aaca1996265/).
" 4.
Applicant herein entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with non-applicant on The said Agreement contemplated incorporation of a Joint Venture Company.
This second Agreement did not contain an arbitration clause.
It may be noted that the applicant has no claim against the non-applicant under the second Agreement.
5.
Besides the Joint Venture Agreement dated 04, a third Agreement was also entered into on 04 called as Research and Development Agreement ("R & D Agreement", in short).
4 6.
In short, there existed three Agreements at the relevant time.
The first was the Supply Agreement.
The second was the Joint Venture Agreement.
The Third was R & D Agreement.
In between the Joint Venture and R & D Agreements there is Termination Agreement dated Although the applicant has no claim under the Joint Venture Agreement, it is necessary to mention that there were three Agreements by and between the parties because one of the contentions raised by the non-applicant in its counter (at page 109 of the paper book of Arbitration Application) to the effect that if the applicant genuinely believed that the Supply Agreement had not been terminated by the Termination Agreement dated 04, it would not have entered into the R & D Agreement under which the applicant had received #40 thousand.
7.
To sum up the chronology of events it may be stated that the Supply Agreement came to be executed on The Joint Venture Agreement came to be executed on However, on 04 a Termination Agreement allegedly has been entered into by and between the parties.
After Termination Agreement, parties executed R & D Agreement on 5 8.
There is no dispute regarding execution of the Supply Agreement, the execution of the Joint Venture Agreement and the execution of R & D Agreement.
The dispute is regarding the execution of the Termination Agreement dated The dispute is regarding the effect of that Termination Agreement by which purportedly the Supply Agreement stood terminated.
The dispute is also whether in view of the specific clauses mentioned in the Termination Agreement, all claims ceased to exist.
9.
The entire controversy revolves around the purported Deed of Termination dated The claim of the applicant 10.
<S5>The claim made by the applicant concerns willful breach of obligations by the non-applicant under the Supply Agreement.</S5>
Applicant says that they have exhausted all the available remedies before approaching this Court for appointment of Arbitrators under Section 11 of the 1996 Act.
<S5>It is their submission that the Supply Agreement dated 04 has not been terminated by the purported Termination Agreement</S5> dated It is their claim that <S5>the alleged Deed of Termination is brought about by the non-applicant by forging the signatures of its Directors only to avoid the liabilities 6 and obligations under the Supply Agreement between the parties.</S5>
It is their claim that the existence of the Termination Agreement came to be noticed by them only on 05 when the non-applicant representatives forwarded the alleged Termination Agreement.
It is only then that they noticed that <S5>the document was false and fabricated.</S5>
<S5>The applicant's claim that the Termination Agreement was not signed by two of its Directors whose signatures had been forged and that in any event the said two Directors had no authority to sign the said Agreement.</S5>
