The Government of Maharashtra has published a Government Resolution on 02.06.2004 wherein it was informed to the public at large that the percentage of educated un-employed amongst the Scheduled Caste and neo- Buddhist are on the higher side and those who are below poverty line are required to work under different schemes and their standard of living is consequently adversely affected.
For the said reason, it was resolved that land should be made available to such people to create a source of income for them.
For the said purpose, a scheme was framed by name Karamveer Dadasaheb Gaikwad Sabalikaran and Swabhiman Yojana Samiti.
As per the Scheme, a Committee was constituted in each district and the Collector of the district was to act as Head of the Committee.
The said Scheme was made applicable with effect from 01.04.2004.
As per the Scheme, land was to be purchased by the Government and was to be made available to the persons belonging to the Scheduled Caste and neo-Buddhist who were below poverty line.
Madhao Rukhmaji Vaidya-Appellant No.1 herein while working as Special District Welfare Officer and Member Secretary of the Samiti under the Scheme, did several transactions under the supervision of District Collector, Yavatmal.
Sau. Sadhana Mahukar Yavalkar-appellant No.2, a Warden at Government Hostel, Ghatanji, District Yavatmal was working as Assistant of appellant No.1 in the said Scheme.
She was authorized by appellant No.1 to get the Sale deeds executed in favour of the Government of Maharashtra under the Scheme.
On 04.04.2005, the State Government purchased agricultural land situated at village Koli-Bujruq.
The said land was jointly owned by eight persons.
The appellants, after perusing the revenue records of the said land purchased it from the Vendors by getting executed a registered sale deed.
<S5>At the time of execution of sale deed, on 07.05.2005, an affidavit was sworn by the Vendors that they were residents of Mouza Koli-Buzruq, Tahsil Ghatanji, District Yavatmal and were the owners of Gut No. 43 of the said property.</S5>
On 04.06.2005, A newspaper by name “Tarun Bharat” published an article in which <S5>it was alleged that the petitioners have purchased agricultural land showing Ramesh as alive while he was dead.</S5>
<S5>It was further alleged that one Ramesh Shikaji Rathod had signed the sale deed as Ramesh Shika Jadhav.</S5>
On coming to know about the said publication, appellant No. 1 on 29.06.2005 made an enquiry and recorded the statements of the said eight Executants and on 02.07.2005 lodged a report in Ghatanji P.S. against them for an offence of impersonation and cheating.