STATE OF MAHARASHTRA TRHU CBI v. VIKRAM ANANTRAI DOSHI & ORS. [2014] INSC
451 (19 September 2014)

On a perusal of the charge sheet, it is evincible that there are
allegations to the effect that Vikram Doshi, A 1, Vineet Doshi, A 2, and
Sanjay J. Shah, A 3, made number of applications to the Bank of Baroda for
sanction of various credit facilities, stating that they wanted to induct the
said bank as a new consortium member to replace the existing members, namely,
the UTI Bank and the Federal Bank. 
They requested the said Bank to sanction 15% of the total Working Capital facility sanctioned by the consortium of Banks, so that, that much amount could be transferred to the UTI bank and Federal Bank to take over the existing liabilities with the said two banks. 
It was revealed during investigation that the account of the company, <S5>with the
consortium of banks as well as the finance institutions, was highly irregular
and in the said condition the accused persons approached the Bank for sanction
of loan</S5>.
<S5>In the application to the Bank, the accused persons concealed the
fact relating to the dues outstanding against them.</S5> 
<S5>Thereafter, when asked for the outstanding position with the existing consortium members, the accused persons willfully and with the criminal intent to mislead the Bank of Baroda,
furnished wrong statements about the outstanding position by giving considerably lesser amount as outstanding than the actual.</S5>

As further alleged, the amount of loan sought was sanctioned on 24.01.2003
by one Mr. K.K. Aggarwal, General Manager and communicated to the branch. 
As per the terms and conditions of the said Term Loan, the primary security for
the same was the first charge to be created on the fixed assets of the company
ranking pari passu with the existing Term Lending Institutions. 
The primary charge for the cash credit and working capital demand loan was the
hypothecation of current assets such as stocks, stocks in trade, raw materials
and book debts, and, that apart, one of the important terms and conditions was
that the CC, WCDL and Term Loan amounts were to be directly paid to the
company’s account with the UTI Bank and Federal Bank so as to take over the
liabilities as well as the securities mortgaged with the two banks. 
Despite the said situation, the Bank on 29.01.2003 intimated the sanction to ATCOM,
the company in question. 
It is further demonstrable from the chargesheet that A-1 and A-2, with the <S5>intention to escape personal liabilities, made A-3 and one Mr. Chirag Gandhi directors in ATCOM and got all the loan documents including the Demand Promissory Note (DPN) signed by the said persons.</S5>
The terms and conditions of the sanction was that the entire Working Capital of
Rs.570.00 lakhs (Rs.114.00 lakhs + Rs.456.00 lakhs) and the Term Loan of
Rs.360.00 lakhs were to be directly paid to the UTI Bank and Federal Bank.
Consequently, the Term Loan was released and paid as per the sanction terms
and conditions. 
As alleged, A-1 induced the Bank to release the sanctioned Working Capital Funds to the Current Account and from the said account <S5> money was dishonestly diverted to his own accounts with SBI and Dena Bank, to bring down the outstanding liabilities in those accounts.</S5>
As per the Chargesheet, Rs.114.00 lakhs of Cash Credit (the Fund Based portion of Working Capital) and Rs.456.00 lakhs (the Demand Based portion of Working Capital) were released
into the Current Account on 27.03.2003. 
Thus, the total funds released into the Current Account was Rs.560.00 lakhs out of which <S5>A-1 dishonestly transferred Rs.352.00 lakhs to SBI and about Rs.200.00 lakhs to Dena Bank, which amounted to diversion of concerned Bank’s funds dishonestly and caused
wrongful loss to the said Bank.</S5>