R.N.AGARWAL v. R.C. BANSAL &AMP; ORS. [2014] INSC 523 (14 October 2014)

These appeals are directed against the judgment and order dated 2.2.2011
passed by the High Court of Delhi in Crl.M.C. Nos.2955 and 3779 of 2009 and
Crl.Rev.No. 575 of 2009, whereby the High Court of Delhi while quashing the
order dated 10th July, 2009 of the Special Judge, CBI Court Rohini, allowed
aforesaid Section 482 criminal petitions filed by the alleged culprits and
Section 397 criminal revision of the Investigating Officer.

The brief facts of the case are that in the year 1983, a Society named
Maharani Avanti Bai Co-operative Society was formed and from time to time
members were enrolled by its Managing Committee. 
Upto the year 1989 there were 90 members of the Society and thereafter further enrolment of members was stopped. 
However, no land was allotted to the Society for many years and in
the meantime its members became disinterested in the running of the Society as
the cost of the flats to be constructed had gone very high and beyond their
reach. 
The society thus became dormant.

Some persons who were not members of the Society but were far-sighted and
clever minded became interested to take over its management and got the land
allotted from Delhi Development Authority (in short, ‘DDA’) to be utilized for
the benefits of their own persons. 
<S5>They forged certain records of the Society to show that many of the original members of the Society had resigned and a new Managing Committee had been constituted.</S5> 
<S5>By forged resignation letters of the original members of the Society, new members were shown to have been enrolled and the forged records were submitted in the office of the Registrar of Co-operative Societies after entering into some kind of criminal
understanding with the officials in that office.</S5>
It is alleged that based on the forged documents, <S5>which included minutes purporting to be of the illegally constituted Managing Committee of the Society comprising of all new members and also of General Body Meetings which were never held</S5>, DDA was approached
for allotment of land with the assistance rendered by the Registrar of Co-
operative Societies by certifying that all the meetings were duly held and a
list of new members of the Society was forwarded to DDA. 
Accepting the same, DDA allotted a plot measuring 600 sq. meters to the Society in Dwarka for the benefit of the 90 members of the Society in the year 1998. 
All these facts emerged during the investigation by CBI.
