SUKH RAM v. STATE OF H.P. [2016] INSC 529 (25 July 2016)

Present batch of appeals arise out of three separate judgments of the High
Court of Himachal Pradesh passed in Criminal Appeals No. 418 of 2007, 419 of
2007 and 420 of 2007 in and by which the High Court reversed the acquittal of
the appellant and convicted him for the offences punishable under Sections 468
and 471 of the Indian Penal Code and imposed six months imprisonment.

During the relevant point of time i.e. 1983-1986, there was a government scheme for
providing loans at the cheaper interest rates to poor persons living below the
poverty line to enable them to purchase sheeps, buffalos, horses and for
running small businesses and for development of land etc. 
Upon recommendation of the Block Development Officer (BDO), the bank disbursed these loans to the beneficiaries. 
Appellant-Sukh Ram was a Gram Sewak, Navgaon under Arki Sub- Division during said period, 1983 to 1986\.

It is the case of the prosecution that appellant-Sukh Ram, Gram Sewak,
while submitting applications on behalf of the villagers for these loans, was
involved in <S5>misappropriation of loan amounts by forging their signatures and
thumb impressions on the applications and acknowledgement receipts.</S5> 
All three appeals have been heard together as the offences committed by the same accused
persons appellant-<S5>Sukh Ram and others as also the modus operandi of committing
the forgery and falsification of records being the same.</S5>
Criminal Appeal No.224 of 2012 is taken as the lead case.

On the basis of the preliminary enquiry, it came to light that PW-5 Nathu
Ram, PW-7 Kirpu and PW-8 Garja Ram had loans disbursed to them despite not
having applied for the loans. 
Consequently, a case was registered against the appellant–Sukh Ram, Balbir Singh-Block Development Officer and Arun Kumar Sood, Branch Manager, UCO Bank Darlaghat. 
During enquiry, <S5>it further came to light that disbursement of loans was not actually made to the beneficiaries.</S5>
An FIR was registered and on completion of the investigation and after
obtaining sanction from the government, chargesheet was filed against the
appellant–Sukh Ram Gram Sewak, Balbir Singh-Block Development Officer and Arun
Kumar Sood, Branch Manager, UCO Bank Darlaghat. 
Charges were framed against the appellant and the said accused under Sections 409, 467, 468, 471, 120-B and 420 IPC and under Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
During the course of investigation, PW-5 and PW-7 gave their specimen signatures in the presence of the executive magistrate and the same were sent to the handwriting expert for comparison with their disputed signatures in the loan application and other documents. 
<S5>Handwriting expert opined that the signatures in the loan application and other documents did not match the signatures of Nathu Ram, Kirpu and others but only matched the signature of appellant-Sukh Ram.</S5>
