Accusations which led to the trial of the accused persons are essentially as
follows:

<S3>Accused persons conspired to kill deceased Joga Singh, to abet terrorist and</S3>
<S3>disruptive activities.</S3> Deceased had established many educational institutions
to serve Sikh community like Gurunanak Hospital in 1969, Gurunanak Public
School Bidar in 1975, Gurunanak School at Hyderabad in 1978 and could
successfully establish Gurunanak Dev Engineering College at Bidar in August,
1980. <S3>Accused persons intended to take over the said institutions and make a</S3>
<S3>base for Khalisthan movement.</S3> After "Operation Blue Star" which wounded the
religious feelings of Sikhs, the Pro-Khalistan militant Sikh Students
Organisation had its watchful eyes on Sikh student population of Bidar to
establish its base.

Dilbagh Singh (A-4) an activist of all India Sikh Students Federation (AISSF)
who was studying in II year in the Gurunanak Dev Engineering College came in
contact with Deepender Singh (A-5) who was student of Regional Engineering
College, Balky. Others involved were some wanted activists of AISSF. After
proposed move of the Government of India to have a comprehensive legislation
for all Gurudwaras, the deceased Joga Singh created a trust in the name of
Shree Nanak Jheera Sahib Trust (Foundation) and transferred all the
Educational Institutions to the trust while delinking religious activities of
the Gurudwara to Gurudwara Nanak Jheera Sahib and Mai Bhago. Deceased
continued to be the head of both the trust and Gurudwara.

Esher Singh (A-1) who was working as Sub-Inspector of Central Reserve Police
Force left the service after "Operation Blue Star" and started moving about in
Hyderabad City wearing Bhindranwale type garments and organised processions
carrying Bhindranwale pictures and held Bhog ceremony at Gowliguda Gurudwara,
Hyderabad. He was making efforts to inject hatred and disaffection among the
Sikhs and could successfully take over the Barambala Gurudwara at
Rajendranagar, Attapur in Sikh Chavani and successfully tried to bring some
militant youth under his fold and indoctrined Pro-Khalistan ideology by
imparting training to them in Shastra Vidya and Karate at Sikh Chavani Attapur
and Gowliguda. He also attempted to advocate the said ideology in Bidar among
the students. Nanak Singh Nishter (A-2) who was president of Central
Gurudwara, Gowliguda and also an Executive Member of Shree Nanak Jhira Sahib,
Bidar, and Gurudwara Mai Bhago at Janwada was actively assisting the deceased
in his religious activities, felt disappointed and aggrieved by his non-
inclusion as member of the Trust of Prabhandak Committee, Nanak Jheera Trust
in 1987. Nishan Singh (A-3) was residing in Bidar since September 1987 as
representative of Baba Charan Singh who was incharge of Karseva of Kurukshetra
Gurudwara.

Attempts to pursue deceased Joga Singh to transfer the Kar Seva agreement in
his name cancelling the earlier agreement of Baba Charan Singh did not yield
any result. <S3>A-1 to A-3 developed hatred against the deceased, and launched</S3>
<S3>tirade against the deceased with a view to take over the seat of the deceased.</S3>
Dilbagh Singh (A-4) a native of Amritsar and active member of All India Sikh
Student Federation, Punjab, sought his admission in Gurunanak Dev Engineering
College, Bidar, and started enlisting students from North India into his Pro-
Khalistan activities and became close associate of A-3. Deepender Singh (A-5),
resident of Nabha, Patiala, and student of Rural Engineering College, Bhalki
which is at a distance of 40 kms. from Bidar came in contact with A-1 and A-3
and was frequently visiting Dhera of Karseva. A-1 and others were rigorously
pursing their plan and propagating Pro-Khalistan ideology among Sikh students
of Bidar Rajender Singh Dhingra (A-6) of Hind Motor Driving School and Sony
Travels and relative of A-2 is staunch supporter of A-1.

Mohinder Singh (A-7) a native of Haryana, a proclaimed offender and terrorist
of Punjab who was involved in number of terrorist cases was also close
associate of A-3. Gurmail Singh (A-8) of Punjab is also a terrorist of Punjab
and participated in various crimes alongwith A-5, A-7 and A-9.

Ram Singh (A-9) also is a wanted terrorist of Punjab who participated in the
present occurrence.

A-1 and A-2 who were entertained for their religious affiliation misused the
same by collecting donations from students seeking admissions in Gurunanak Dev
Engineering College, Bidar. On coming to know of the same, deceased discarded
them. Movement started by deceased to start a Medical College heightened the
tensions which was building up with the arrival of some Sikh boys from North
India.

Several non-Sikh educational institutions joined hands to organise an
agitation against granting of permission to start medical college, because
they feared that it would be further increasing the number of Sikhs to about
1200, of which 1000 from North India having anti-established stands.

There was organised violence and riots in September, 1988, in which six Sikh
students were killed, besides many were injured and houses and shops of Sikhs
were damaged and burnt, besides religious institutions. A-1 to A-3 who were
waiting for an opportunity to make their inroads to contain the growing
influence of the deceased Joga Singh and also to occupy his position, made
number of visits to Bidar, contacted A-3, A-4 and A-5 and other militant Sikhs
having Pro-Khalistan ideas for starting tirade against the deceased Joga
Singh. They also started an active propaganda that contributions made by the
Sikh community to the educational trust were misused with a view to deprive
the Sikh community. They also accused the deceased of many improprieties
including indifference to the security of Sikhs. At the instance of A-1 and
A-2, a meeting of Sikh community was convened on 22.9.1988 at Sikh Hostel
Narayanguda, Hyderabad to pay homage to departed souls of students who were
killed in Bidar riots. In the meeting A-1 and A-2 proposed to hold Deewan-E
Aam on 2.10.88 at Bidar Gurudwara with an ulterior motive of defaming and
excommunicating the deceased and trustees and usurp the control of Gurudwara
and the trust. A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-6 and others marshalled their associates,
and mustered their strength having successfully augmented majority among the
students who attended. A-1 and A-2 gave highly inflammatory speeches making
wild allegations against the deceased and levelling allegations of mal-
administration of religious funds of the community, made the deceased
responsible for the misery to Sikh students and accused him of having failed
in his responsibility to protect the Sikhs at Bidar. In that way A-1 to A-3
could successfully make a dent in establishing a base for Pro-Khalistan
movement and trying to get support of those who were openly opposing the
deceased Joga Singh. A-1 and A-2 made their own henchmen as Punj Pyaras and
imposed punishment of "Thankayya" on the deceased and four others holding them
responsible for the death of Sikh students and for their religious
impropriety.

The deceased and his supporters resisted the said move and the matter was
referred to Thakhat Such Khand Shri Hazur Saheb, Nanded, which is considered
as Southern region religious head of the Sikh community. Hazura Singh (DW-36)
who is one of the Punj Pyaras of Nanded Gurudwara made enquiries from A-1 and
deceased, disapproved the move of A-1 of ex-communication and imposition of
punishment on the deceased. A-1 questioned the propriety of decision taken by
Hazura Singh (DW-36), but later obeyed the religious order.

Accused persons proclaimed that they will retaliate if the culprits are not
booked before 23rd November, 1988 (i.e.

Guru Nanak Jayanthi) as a part of terrorist activity to create terror in the
minds of moderate Sikhs.

On 28.12.1988, two vehicles bearing Nos. AHS 9424 AHA 1168 which were carrying
sixty ceiling fans were burnt by mob of students in Gurudwara premises. In
that regard a case i.e. Cr. No. 422/88 U/Ss. 143, 211, 136 r/w 149 IPC was
registered at Gandhigunj P.S. of Bidar District against unknown students in
which the complicity of A-4 was strongly suspected. A-1 and A-2 started
printing, publishing and circulating highly inflammatory, defamatory
propaganda against the deceased Joga Singh, instigating student community
against the deceased with a view to bring them under their fold and propagate
Pro-Khalistan among Sikh community and organise an organisation, calling
itself as "SIKH COMMANDO FORCE". They threatened the Government with dire
consequences under the pretext of championing the cause of Sikh Community.

Deceased was apprehensive of A-1 and his associates and made earnest appeal to
the authorities concerned requesting to contain the anti-national activities,
for protection and also to take steps to contain the Pro-Khalistan activities.

As a security measure, check post was established on the outskirts of Bidar to
check the vehicles in which the Sikhs were entering into Bidar and
systematically check and numbers noted with a view to prevent inflow of wanted
Pro- Khalistan activities and arms and ammunition. Another check post was
established at the entrance of Gurdwara, Bidar, besides various other major
steps for tightening security at Bidar Gurudwara under charge of M.
Srivastava, Superintendent of Police, Bidar. One officer was also posted as
Personal Security Officer to the deceased with a service revolver and
ammunitions.

<S3>A-1 to A-3 intensified their war against the deceased by abusing, threatening,</S3>
<S3>intimidating him.</S3> By the end of 1988 A-1 to A-3 could successfully establish
contact with the underground dreaded terrorist Mohinder Singh (A-7) in Nanded
who was taking his shelter there. Thereafter A-7 shifted to Bidar alongwith
his family and took shelter with A-3 in his Dhera as a Kar Sevadar. A-5, A-8
and A-9 used to frequently move in the company of Kar Sevadar alongwith A-3,
A-4 and A-7. A-8 approached Dayal Singh (PW-32), Avtar Singh (PW-26) and other
residents of Hyderabad and requested them to join hands with them in removing
deceased from being a religious head. A-7 shifted to Hyderabad and got
accommodation through PW-26 at Hyderabad. A-1 and A-2 held secret meetings in
Kishan Bagh Chavani and made efforts to enlist services of Sikh youth to
liquidate deceased Joga Singh. A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-5 to A-9 held number of
meetings in the house of A-2.

In the month of February 1989, during the examination of B.E. II year at
G.N.D.E. College, numbers of students including A-4 were caught while they
were indulging in mal- practices. At that time deceased refused to interfere
with the enquiry in the matter. At that time, A-3 and A-4 nourished hatred
against the deceased. <S3>A-1 to A-9 entered into criminal conspiracy to do away</S3>
<S3>with deceased.</S3> A-1 was mastermind of conspiracy for liquidating the deceased.
A-5 and A-7 were entrusted with the job of securing weapons. A-2 and A-3
provided shelter and finance for the operation, A-1 was entrusted to select
youth for operation of annihilation, while A-6 was to provide information and
conveyance. A-8 and A-9 were entrusted with execution of annihilation of
deceased. In pursuance of said conspiracy, A-5 and A-9 went to Punjab and
secured A.K.47 rifles, one .32 revolver and 200 rounds of ammunition. The
accused persons surveyed the topography of proposed scene of offence and were
noticed late in the night of 29.3.89. On 24.3.89 A-1, A-7, A-8 and A-9
alongwith Professor Darshan Singh Ragi visited Bidar when the latter attended
Keertan arranged by some devotees.

At that time, the plan of action proposed to liquidate Joga Singh could not be
executed. A-8 through A-6 secured a red colour Maruti Car bearing Registration
No. AEY 222 belonging to PW-11 on payment of Rs.64,000/-. A-7, A-8 and A-9
visited Bidar on 28.3.1989 in the said Maruti Car and contacted A-3, A-4 and
A-5 to track down the movements of deceased Joga Singh. In pursuance of said
criminal conspiracy, A-5, A-7, A-8 and A-9 went to the house of deceased in
the red colour Maruti Car while A-5 was waiting in the Car. A-8 armed with a
.32 Revolver was guarding at the scene. A-7 and A-9 entered the house armed
with AK.47 assault rifle. On 30.3.89 at about 21.05 hours, while PW-1 was
serving dinner while other family members of deceased were witnessing the T.V.
in the drawing-cum-dining hall, <S3>A-7 and A-9 entered into the drawing cum</S3>
<S3>dinning hall, opened fire with A.K. Assault rifle, pumped bullets on Joga</S3>
<S3>Singh who succumbed to gun shot injuries</S3> and on seeing the same Devender Singh
(PW-1) and Balwanth Singh (PW-2) raised cries, tried to chase them, but the
A-7 and A-9 while retreating fired at them indiscriminatively to scare them
away. PW-1 chased them upto main road and came to know through P. Satyanarayan
( PW-8) that 4 to 5 persons fled away in a red Maruti Car towards Darussalam
while scaring the public by opening fire in the air. A-5, A-7 and A-9 returned
to the house where they were staying and tried to quit the house immediately.

Meanwhile Darshan Singh (PW-14) and others surrounded the house in which A-5,
A-7 and A-9, tried to apprehend them, but they fled away into the dark. A-8
who made attempt to escape on Luna bearing Registration No. AEA 1326 was
surrounded by them. He left the Luna and took to heels and he was chased by
them and on finding no way to escape, he fired in the air to scare them and
finally shot himself dead with his Revolver.

On receipt of the complaint a case (Cr.No.63/89) under Section 302 IPC and
Sections 25 and 27 of the [Arms
Act](http://www.liiofindia.org/in/legis/cen/num_act/aa195968/) was registered,
inquest was conducted over the dead body, and it was sent for post mortem.
Blood stained clothes of the deceased, empty cartridges and spent bullets were
seized under panchanamas. Residential portion of house of A-7 was searched and
a driving license, a receipt, H.P. Gas cylinder, clothes, utensils and other
household articles were seized. Naganath (PW-15) identified A-7 to be Mohinder
Singh alias Satwender Singh @ Satta involved in number of terrorist cases in
Punjab and Haryana. C. Narasingha Rao (PW-47) seized the application form,
reservation slip written by A-5 for himself and A-9 for their return journey
from Delhi to Hyderabad. Subsequently A-7 was killed in an encounter in the
intervening night of 16/17-5-1989. In that regard also one A.K. rifle was
seized from his possession which was deposited in the Court of Judicial
Magistrate of First Class, Sangrur. A-3, A-6, and A-5 were arrested on
3.4.1989, 7.4.1989 and 20.4.1989 respectively. Confessional statement of A-5
was recorded under TADA and A-2 and A-1 were arrested on 27.4.1989 and
11.5.1989 respectively.
