Brief facts necessary for the disposal of these appeals are follows:

The deceased S. Mahendara Singh was residing with his mother PW-2 and elder
brother PW-1 at Bapunagar within the limits of Sanjeevareddy Nagar Police
Station. The appellants and A-1 were also residents of said Bapunagar. The
residents of Bapunagar were managing an Association called Basthi Youth
Association which in turn was running a Bhajana Mandali. PW-4 was the
President of the said Bhajana Mandali and the deceased was the Vice President
of said Bhajana Mandali. It is the case of the prosecution that there was a
death in the family of A-2, hence, he wanted certain "samagri" for the funeral
which was available in the said Bhajana Mandali. With a view to get the
"samagri", on 30th of April, 1998 at about 11 p.m., the accused persons came
to the house of the deceased and asked him to give the said "samagri" for
taking them to Maheswaram for doing Bhajan at the house of the relative where
the death had taken place. <S3>It is stated that the deceased refused to give</S3>
<S3>Bhajan samagri for being used outside the locality. Being annoyed by the said</S3>
<S3>refusal by the deceased, it is stated that the accused persons went away</S3> but
came back again at about 11.45 p.m. when the members of the deceased family
were sleeping and called the deceased to come out. The prosecution alleges on
being so called the deceased went outside the house.

Immediately thereafter PWs.1 and 2 heard the cries of the deceased, hence,
they came out of the house when <S3>they saw A-2 and A-3 were holding the hands of</S3>
<S3>the deceased and A-1 was stabbing the deceased on the chest.</S3> The prosecution
alleges that when these witnesses went near the victim the accused persons
went away threatening these witnesses. The further case of the prosecution is
that at that time PWs.3 and 4 who were clearing certain construction materials
in front of their house had also witnessed the occurrence. The prosecution
alleges <S3>after the accused went away the deceased was removed to Gandhi</S3>
<S3>hospital but he died on the way.</S3> PW-1 thereafter went to Sanjeevareddy Nagar
Police Station and gave a written complaint Ex.P1 to PW-8 who was In-charge of
the Police Station at that time and a crime was registered on the basis of the
said complaint under Section 302 IPC. PW-10, the Circle Inspector of Police of
the said Police Station then took up the investigation. He visited the scene
of offence and examined PWs.1 to 4 and recorded the statements in the morning
of 1st May, 1998 and after investigation he filed the charge sheet against the
accused persons. It is relevant to mention herein that during the course of
investigation PW-10 also got the statements of PWs.1, 3 and 4 recorded under
Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. During the course of the trial,
PW-4 did not support the prosecution case fully, hence, he was treated as
hostile and cross-examined. The trial court accepting the evidence of the eye-
witnesses PWs.1 to 4 came to the conclusion that the deceased met with a
homicidal death at the hands of the accused persons during which act A-1
caused 4 stab injuries which led to his death and during the said attack by
A-1,the other accused A2 and A3 were holding the hands of the deceased
facilitating him to inflict the wound. Therefore, while A-1 was convicted for
an offence punishable under Section 302 IPC simplicitor, two appellants before
us were convicted for an offence punishable under Section 302 with the aid of
Section 34 IPC.
