The appellants are the members of Pradeshik Armed Constabulary belonging to the 5th batallion and their Headquarter was at Ramnagar.
An unfortunate and unsavoury incident occurred on account of the decision of the State Government that the Army should take over charge of the armoury and magzines of the Provincial Pradeshik Armed Constabulary throughout Uttar Pradesh.
<S1>It is on account of the aforesaid direction the forces belonging to the Personnel from taking charge of the armoury and in furtherance of which 12 personnel from taking charge of the Army were killed and 32 were injured.
On account of the firing form the Army 4 persons belonging to the Pradeshik Armed Constabulary were killed and some were injured.</S1>
Ultimately, however, the direction of the State was implemented and the Army took charge of the armoury and other weapons.
The incident occurred during the night of 1973 and continued for a fairly long period till 30 p.m.
of On the basis of First Information Report given on 22nd May, 1973, at 30 p.m.
a criminal case was instituted and a chargesheet was submitted against 44 accused persons including the appellants in these two appeals under Sections 147, 148, 302/149, 307/149, 324/149, 326/149, 395/397, 120B and 427 Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Rule 43(5) of the Defence of India Rules as well as under Sections 6(b) and 7(c) U.P.
Pradeshik Armed Constabulary Act.
The prosecution case in nutshell is that the members of the Armed Constabulary formed an Association which was not recognised by the State of U.P.
<S1>The forces belonging to the Armed Constabulary who had been posted in the Lucknow University Campus became indisciplined and some untoward incidents happened there which compelled the State Government to take a decision to disarm the Armed Constabulary and give charge of the armoury and magzines hitherto under the charge of the Armed Constabulary to the Army in the entire State.</S1>
When this decision was communicated by the I.G.
of Police to the DIG of Police Varanasi range the said DIG had a telephonic talk with the Commissioner Shri A.K.
Mustaf as the situation was going out of control and in accordance with the decision taken by the State Government to hand over the arms and ammunitions belonging to the Armed Constabulary to Army the local Administration at Varanasi requested the Army Commandant Lt.
Col.
sectionK.
Verma to provide military assistance to take over the charge of the Armed Constabulary Quarter Guard and the Magzine at Ramnagar.
The Army personnel discussed the matter with the civillian authorities chalked out a scheme of action and finally a contingent of army was sent to the Armed Constabulary Headquarter at Ramnagar under the leadership of Major C.S.
Chima accompanied by a Magistrate First Clasections They started the operation at 15 a.m.
on 22nd May, 1973, and reached at the Try Junction of the road at Rambagh.
The Magistrate then proceeded towards the Quarter Guard Building accompanied by the Company Commanders of the Armed Constabulary leaving their vehicles away on the road at a distance of 50 to 60 yards from Quarter Guards on duty there were 40 to 50 persons belonging to the Armed Constabulary and when the Commanders directed those people to hand over charge of the armoury to the Military, the Guards on duty as well as those who were present there became agitated and openly refused to hand over the charge to the Military.
Those Guards also openly declared that if anybody proceeds to take over the charge of Quarter Guard then they should be taught a lesson.
The Magistrate present there also tried to persuade the members of the Armed Constabulary not a resist Army from taking over the charge inasmuch as it was the decision of the State Government but those persons did not pay any attention to the advise of the Magistrate.
These Armed Constabulary personnel seeing that Army is marching towards the Quarter Guard sounded the bugle and then breaking open the locks of the armoury armed themselves to fight out.
The Magistrate on duty declared the Assembly of the Armed Constabulary at the Quarter Guard Building as unlawful and ordered their dispersal but instead of dispersing from the place they opened fire from the Quarter Guard Building towards the Military force.
The officers of the Military forces marching towards Quarter Guard Building thereupon returned back and Major Cheema, who was the commanding officer of the Army sought for permission of the Magistrate the Army personnel took their position and opened fire and a regular battle started between the personnel of the Armed Constabulary and the Army.
The Magistrate then had a telephonic discussion with the District Magistrate and sought for reinforcement of the Army personnel.
Lt.
Col.
sectionK.
Verma reached the place of incident with the reinforcement of Military personnel accompanied by Major N.N.
Jolly.
Under the orders of Col.
Verma a group lead by Major Jolly started approaching the Quarter Guard Building from one direction and another group lead by Col.
Verma proceeded from another direction.
Both the groups faced stiff resistance from the personnel belonging to the Armed Constabulary and ultimately Armed Constabulary personnel surrendered and the Military took over the charge of the armoury in the Quarter Guard Building.
<S1>The High Court has indicated the fallacy of the reasonings advanced by the learned Sessions Judge in acquitting some of the accused persons by holding that "the Trial Court having held those accused persons were members of an unlawful assembly, they could not be exonerated under Section 302/149 and 307/" On analysis of the evidence the High Court has come to the conclusion that those accused persons became the members of an unlawful assembly and had seen some of the members of that assembly had equipped themselves with rifles and have been indiscriminately using them against the Army Jawans.</S1>
<S1>Some of the accused persons in fact were injured which establishes the fact of their being present at the place of occurrence and their presence is also otherwise established through the oral testimony of more than two prosecution witnesses.</S1>
<S1>Once it is held that they were also members of unlawful assembly they will be liable for the unlawful activities of the members of the said assembly, even if they might not have actually fired the guns.</S1>
<S1>On the materials on record the High Court has come to the conclusion that not only the persons concerned were members of unlawful assembly but also their presence at the spot constituted sufficient encouragement for other members of the said assembly who indiscriminately started firing at the Army jawans.</S1>
<S1>The prosecution evidence unequivocally establishes the fact that the accused persons belonging to the Provincial Constabulary started indiscriminately firing at the Army jawans who had been called upon to take charge of the armoury.</S1>
<S1>On account of such indiscriminate firing by the members of the Provincial Constabulary 12 persons belonging to the Army died whose dead bodies were recovered from the spot itself and the necessary death certificates had been issued by the Medical authority.</S1>
<S1>The further argument that the prosecution evidence is not categorical to the face that the death of the Army jawans occurred on account of firing by the appellants is equally unsustainable in view of the charge under Section 302 read with 149 Indian Penal Code, 1860 and in view of the findings that the accused appellants together with several others belonging to the Provincial Armed Constabulary formed an unlawful assembly and in resisting the Army jawans from taking charge of the Armoury and the Quarter Guard indiscriminately fired at them.</S1>
<S1>We have also examined the evidence on record and the conclusion is irresistible that the prosecution case that accused appellants being members of an unlawful assembly indiscriminately started firing at the Army jawans which resulted in the death oaf 12 Army personnel has been proved beyond reasonable doubt, and as such, the High Curt has rightly convicted them under Section 302/149 Indian Penal Code, 1860.</S1>
<S1>We have also considered the argument specifically advanced on behalf of the appellant Shambhu Singh to the effect that Shambhu Singh was not there at the Quarter Guard when the firing started and he came at a later stage and as such cannot beheld to be a member of an unlawful assembly but we do not find any substance in the same.</S1>
PW 3 Vishwa Nath Pandey was the senior most Company Commanders in respect of 9 companies constituting the 5th Batallion.
He had gone to the place of occurrence several times both in the beginning of the incident as well as after the arrival of the Armed forces and marched with them towards the Quarter Guard.
<S1>According to him he could see and recognise from amongst the Provincial Constabularies who became unlawful and started firing at Armed jawans, 12 persons including head constable Shambhu Singh.</S1>
<S1>He further indicated that he had seen all of them at the Quarter Guard and 10 of them were firing.</S1>
<S1>In view of the aforesaid positive evidence of PW3 the senior most Company Commander which has been accepted by the two Courts below it is difficult for us to sustain the argument advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant Shambhu Singh that he was not a member of the unlawful assembly from the beginning and even at later point of time he has not done anything so as to convict him by taking recourse to Section 149 Indian Penal Code, 1860.
We, therefore, reject the said submission advanced by the learned counsel for Shambhu Singh.</S1>