Brief facts necessary for the disposal of this appeal are as follows : Rani Bitti, PW-1 along with her son Satti was residing in village Sahanipur within the jurisdiction of Police Station Hussainganj.
It is alleged that said Satti was married about 6 years ago but his wife stayed with him only for a short time and thereafter deserted him.
PW-1 and her son Satti suspected this desertion by Satti's wife was at the instance of Ram Piare A-1 hence entertained some grudge against him.
It is further stated that about 1 month prior to 1978 said PW-1 had sold some sugarcane leaves worth about rs.50 on credit which amount A- 1 had not paid to her.
Prosecution further alleges on 1978 at about 30 a.m.
PW-1 and Satti went to the house of A-1 and demanded the money which led to a verbal altercation.
At that point of time appellant (A-2) came to the house of PW-1 armed with a bhala.
Noticing this PW-1 and Satti started fleeing from the house of A-1 when both A-1 and the appellant started chasing them.
On the way the prosecution alleges 4 other accused persons also joined A-1 in the chase and when they reached the house of Jagdei PW-6 and started further quarrel there, said PW-6 asked them not to quarrel in front of her house hence PW-1 and Satti ran away from the said place but they were again chased by the accused persons in front of the house of Ram Adhar PW-4 and were attacked by the accused persons.
In the said attack PW-1 suffered a lathi blows on her thigh and finger while deceased Sati suffered lathi blows and one incised wound on the abdomen allegedly dealt by the appellant herein with a bhala and died.
The incident in question was reported to Hussainganj Police Station at about 10 a.m.
by PW-1 and after investigation a chargesheet was filed against the appellant and 5 others before the 2nd Additional Sessions Judge, Fatehpur for offences punishable under sections 147, 148, 302 read with 149 Indian Penal Code, 1860.
</S1>From the evidence of PW-1 who is the injured witness it is clear that she and her son deceased Satti were attacked by the accused persons consequent to which Satti died.</S1>
</S1>It is also clear from the evidence led by the prosecution that Satti died due to an incised wound suffered on his abdomen which could have been caused by a sharp- edged weapon like bhala carried by the appellant.</S1>
It is the prosecution case that the appellant alone carried such a weapon and from the medical evidence also it is clear that the cause of death was due to shock and haemorrhage consequent to the incised wound suffered on the abdomen of the deceased.
<S1>Yet we find that Ramu had no motive whatsoever or intention to cause any fatal injury to Satti.</S1>
<S1>It is obvious that in the melee relating to assault on Satti he without realising as to what he was doing, he struck a single blow of spear on Satti which hit him on his vital part resulting in his death.</S1>
<S1>He had not repeated the blow and as held earlier, had no motive to otherwise inflict injury on Satti.</S1>
<S1>We also agree with the High Court that the injury in question was caused during a melee in which 6 persons took part therefore in our opinion on the facts and circumstances of this case, the act of the appellant in causing injury to the deceased which led to his death, cannot be the one which could be construed even as an act of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.</S1>
<S1>Noticing the fact that the incident in question has occurred as far back as 1978 and the appellant had no enmity against the deceased nor any motive to cause a fatal injury, we think the ends of justice would be met if the appellant's conviction is altered to one under section 326 Indian Penal Code, 1860 and a sentence of 3 years' RI is awarded for the said offence.</S1>