The case of the prosecution is that on 22nd March, 1989 the villagers of village Badhapura were celebrating Holi festival when that unfortunate incident took place.
Deceased Ghamandi Lal, a dhobi by caste was also a resident of the village.
At about 00 P.M.
Rajvir Singh, who appeared to be under the influence of liquor, came in front of his house and allegedly started abusing Ghamandi Lal, (deceased) calling him a dhobi, etc.
To this, Indal (deceased) son of Ghamandi Lal objected.
Rajvir Singh did not pay any heed and continued to abuse Ghamandi Lal by his caste.
This infuriated Indal, son of Ghamandi Lal who went inside his house brought out the licensed gun of his father and fired 2/3 shots at Rajvir Singh, as a result of which Rajvir Singh died on the spot.
Immediately, the message reached the family members of Rajvir Singh.
Respondents 1 to 3 his brothers, and respondents 4 and 5 his cousins reached the house of Ghamandi lal.
They lifted the body from in front of the house of Ghamandi Lal and placed it under a Neem tree.
They were infuriated and vowed to avenge the murder of their brother, and in that mood they approached the house of Ghamandi Lal.
Ghamandi Lal apprehending death at their hands, entered his house and bolted the door from inside.
The aforesaid respondents climbed on the roof of his house, broke opened a portion of the roof and threw inside the room straw and other inflammable materials.
Thereafter, they set fire to the house.
The admitted case is that all this took place within 15 minutes of the murder of Rajvir Singh.
A first information report had been lodged at 45 A.M.
regarding the death of Rajvir Singh by Shyamvir Singh, his brother.
The first information report relating to the incident in question was lodged at 15 A.M.
by Kamlesh PW4, a cousin of Ghamandi Lal.
On the basis of the earlier first information report the police force had reached village Badhapura.
It is the case of the prosecution that respondents 6 to 13 prevented the police force as well as the villagers from extinguishing the fire.
Ultimately, the house was burnt down.
From the burnt house the bodies of Ghamandi Lal, his wife Janak Dulari and his sons Vir Pal, Raj Kumar and Indal were recovered.
Though the prosecution examined several witnesses to prove its case, PWS 1,2 &3 were declared hostile.
PW4 Kamlesh who was also informant in the case and a cousin of the deceased supported the case of the prosecution.
PW5 Bittan Devi is also a neighbour like Kamlesh PW She was also a sister of the wife of Ghamandi Lal.
<S1>The incident seriously infuriated the family members of the deceased and resulted in deprivation of power of self control.</S1>
<S1>The time gap of only 15 minutes between the two incidents supports the case of the respondents that what they did was under grave provocation whilst deprived of their power of self control on account of the murder of their brother by Indal.</S1>
<S1>According to her the time gap of 15 minutes was not sufficient for the members of the family of the Rajvir Singh to gain their self control particularly, when they saw the dead body of their brother who was murdered by Indal.</S1>
<S1>It must have taken some time for them to reach the house of Ghamandi Lal, and within no time thereafter the second occurrence took place.</S1>
Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, we are not in a position to say that the view taken by the High Court is not a possible reasonable view of the evidence on record.