The prosecution case as disclosed in the First Information Report is as under : One Pratapa (PW-5) lodged a written report at about 00 p.m.
on 1998 before the sectionH.O.
, Police Station Bagoda, District Jalore, stating that at about 00 a.m.
on the said day while he was going with his brothers Hanja (PW-1), Vasna (deceased) and Raimal (PW-4) from his dhani towards Oran for the purpose of grazing the cattle and when they had been passing through the field of the accused Sonaram, the Appellant herein together with Bhagirath, Kisana Ram, Naringa, Poonmaram and Bhikhram, who were hiding themselves in the field, assaulted them with lathies.
Whereas the Appellant Jalaram is said to have given a lathi blow on the head of the deceased, Bhagirath gave a lathi blow on the head of PW-1 and Kisana Ram gave a lathi blow on the informant's leg.
Although the Appellant herein was named in the First Information Report, no charge-sheet was submitted against him as also against Bhagirath, Poonmaram and Bhikharam.
A charge-sheet for commission of offences punishable under Sections 147, 148, 302, 323 read with Section 149 Indian Penal Code, 1860 was submitted against Kisana Ram, Naringa, Sonaram, Ghamanda and Deva Ram.
However, after examination of five prosecution witnesses and on an application made in this behalf, the Appellant herein and others were summoned by the Trial Judge in terms of Section 319 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, whereafter charges were amended against all the accused.
The prosecution examined 11 witnesses in support of its case.
Hanja (PW-1) had received four injuries and Informant Pratapa (PW- 5) had received five simple injuries.
It is also not in dispute that the accused Sonaram and Kisana Ram had also received one injury each.
The injuries found on the body of the deceased upon post-mortem are as under : "(i) Lacerated wound 7 cm x 3 cm x bone deep with fracture of bone on right side of parieto temporal region.
(ii) Abrasion 4" x 4" on left thigh on anterior side.
" It is not in dispute that the occurrence took place in the field of Sonaram who has been acquitted by the trial court.
It is also not in dispute that Jalaram had agricultural land nearby.
It is furthermore not in dispute that no right of way by way of path/passage between the lands appurtenant to Khasra nos.
865, 866 and 1006 and the boundaries of village Punasa was found to have been recorded in the records of rights.
The defence had examined seven witnesses including DW-6 who was the Investigating Officer in the case.
He stated that upon investigation carried out by him, he came to the opinion that no offence was made out against the accused Jalaram, Bhikharam and Poonmaram.
DW-7 Udda Ram, who is an independent witness stated that there had been a free fight between 'Bishnois' and 'Rebaris' on the field of Sonaram Bishnoi.
It has further not been disputed that the deceased and other on the date of the incident were proceeding with about 60 numbers of cattle for grazing to the field of Sonaram and Bhagirath.
It also deserves to be noticed that the eye-witnesses Hanja (PW-1), Raimal (PW-4) and Pratapa (PW-5) although deposed that the accused persons gave indiscriminate beatings to the deceased but, the same has been, in view of the medical evidence, found to be not correct.
<S1>The right of way on the agricultural land belonging to Sonaram has not been established.</S1>
<S1>The genesis of the occurrence, appears also not to have been disclosed by the prosecution.</S1>
<S1>It is not the case of the prosecution that the Appellant herein and other accused persons had been nurturing any grudge against the deceased or the informant from before or had any motive to commit the aforementioned offence.</S1>
<S1>Any motive on the part of the Appellant and other accused persons for hiding themselves near the place of occurrence and committing the offence has not been established.</S1>
<S1>It is, thus, difficult to accept that part of the prosecution case.
Sonaram and Kisana Ram had also received one injury each.</S1>
<S1>The prosecution has not placed any material before this Court to prove that it was the Appellant and other accused persons who were aggressors.</S1>
<S1>Non-explanation of injuries on the person of Sonaram and Kisana Ram, thus, gains significance.</S1>
" The Appellant herein also has raised a plea of private defence.
<S1>He, however, has not been able to show that the threat on the person of Sonaram and Kisana Ram was such or even threat of dispossession was such, he had to hit the deceased at such place and with such force that he would breathe his last on the spot itself.</S1>
He, therefore, in our considered opinion, exceeded his right of private defence.