Briefly stated the facts of this case are that on 94 P.W.-10, Yogendra Raut, at about 45 p.m.
lodged Fardbeyan (Ex.
P-5) in Police Station Sidhwalia stating therein that about 17 days from the said date his relative of Paithanpatti, P.S.
Majha, had purchased a she-buffalo from one Sattan Choudhary, belonging to his village, for a sum of rs.6,800/-.
His relative had a sum of rs.700/- short of the full payment of the price of the she-buffalo, but on his request, the balance amount was to be paid later on.
His younger brother brought a sum of rs.400/- from his relative.
On the day of occurrence, i.e.
94, at about 45 p.m.
Maniraj Choudhary (A-3), son of Sattan Choudhary, called Yogendra Raut at his house when he gave a sum of rs.400/- to Sattan Choudhary and promised to pay the balance amount of rs.
300/- on the following day.
Maniraj Choudhary (A-3) took out a country-made pistol and pointed towards him.
He shouted for help, which attracted his family members at the house of Sattan Choudhary.
He came to his house along with his family members and later on took their dinner.
His father, Brahmdeo Raut (PW-5), and his brother came out of their house and started going to Bathan.
As soon as they reached mid-way from Bathan suddenly Bunnilal Chaudhary (A-1), Birendra Chaudhary (A-2), Maniraj Chaudhary (A-3), Dashrath Chaudhary (A-4), Magister Chaudhary (A-5), Bali Choudhary (A-6), Jagdish Chaudhary (A-7), Amarjit Chaudhary (A-8), Naresh Choudhary (A-9) and Rajdhari Chaudhary (A-10) holding a revolver and lathis in their hands came at the scene of occurrence and surrounded them.
His younger brother, Shambhu Raut, reached there and all the accused persons chased him upto some distance when Bunnilal Choudhary (A-1) attacked Shambhu Raut with knife at the door of Ambika Ram.
The blow was given on the left side of the chest.
On seeing the incident, his father, Brahmdeo Raut (P.W.-5), came running to the house of Ambika Ram.
His father was given knife blow on his head by Magister Chaudhary (A-5).
On hearing their noise, many village people gathered at the scene of occurrence and on seeing them, all the accused persons fled away.
His brother, Shambhu Raut, being seriously injured fell down at the door of Ambika Ram and blood was oozing out of the injury sustained by him.
Shambhu Raut who was injured was put on a cot and taken to Sidhwalia Hospital for medical treatment where the Doctor had declared him dead.
He took the dead- body of Shambhu Raut to the Police Station.
On these premises, the Police recorded his statement (Ex.
P-5).
On the basis of fardbeyan (Ex.
P-5) P.S.
Case no.
302/94 (Ex.
P-4) came to be registered against all the ten accused persons under Sections 147, 148, 149, 324, 307 and 302 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.
In support of its case, the prosecution examined 12 witnesses, namely P.W.
1- Deonath Raut (eye witness), P.W.
2 Sheo Shankar Bind (eye witness), P.W.
3 Bikau Ram (eye witness), P.W.
4 Kanchan Raut (eye witness), P.W.
5 Brahmdeo Raut (eye witness), P.W.
6 Harishankar Bind, P.W.
7 Ram Nath Bind (eye witness), P.W.
8 - Gorakh Bind, P.W.
9 Smt.
Nirmala Devi, sister of the deceased (eye witness), P.W.
10 Yogendra Raut (informant/eye witness) and P.W.
11 Dr.
Vijay Kumar, who conducted autopsy on the body of the deceased Shambhu Raut on P.W.
12 Ugendra Kumar Singh was a formal witness who had proved the signature and handwriting of the Investigating Officer, Shah Nawaz Khan, and formal FIR (Ex.
P-4), Fardbeyan as exhibit P-5, Inquest Report (Ex.
P-6) and Seizure List (Ex.
P-7) respectively.
Shah Nawaz Khan, Investigating Officer, was not examined by the prosecution.
PWs 1, 2, 3, and 4, the independent eye witnesses, have turned hostile to the prosecution and they were cross-examined at length by the learned Public Prosecutor but nothing substantial favourable to the prosecution could be elicited from their cross- examination.
P.W.
7 Ram Nath Bind is a neighbour of the informant.
</S1>It is his evidence that his statement was not recorded by the Police during investigation of the case.</S1>
P.W.
10 reported in FIR (Ex.
P4) that on the day of occurrence at about 45 p.m.
he had gone to the house of his co-villager Sattan to give him rs.
400/- and promised to pay the balance sum of rs.
300/- on the next day.
Maniraj Chaudhary A.3, son of Sattan, suddenly took out a pistol and pointed it towards the informant, but in his deposition before the trial court his version was that his son Shambhu had gone to Sattan's house to give him rs.400/- where A.3 Maniraj Chaudhary made a demand of rs.
300/- more, as a result verbal discussion ensued between them and it was Birendra Chaudhary (A-2) who took out the pistol.
P.W.
7 Ram Nath Bind, a neighbour who is alleged to be an eye witness, has stated that on hearing noise from the house of Sattan, he went there and found Maniraj Chaudhary (A-3) and Shambhu exchanging heated words with each other.
He has not stated that a pistol was took out either by Maniraj-A-3 or Birendra Chaudhary A-2 as stated by P.W.
10 informant in FIR (Exhibit P-4) and in his deposition before the trial court.
It is the evidence of P.W.
9 Smt.
Nirmala Devi, sister of the deceased, that on hearing noise from the house of Sattan, she went there and saw A-3 Maniraj and her brother Shambhu Raut quarrelling with each other.
She has also not stated that A-2 or A-3 took out a pistol and threatened her brother Shambhu therewith.
Evidences of P.W.
5, P.W.
9 and P.W.
10 have clearly proved that when Shambhu Raut ran towards west side of the cattle shed and reached near the door of the house of one Ambika Ram (not examined), he was apprehended by Bunnilal Chaudhary (A-1) there and was given one blow of knife which landed on the left side of the chest of Shambhu Raut.
Shambhu Raut was rushed to the clinic of Dr.
Mahesh Singh in an injured condition where he was declared dead by the Doctor.
The dead body of Shambhu Raut was taken to police station where fardbeyan (Ex.
P-5) of P.W.
10 informant was recorded by the Police Officer.
Dr.
Vijay Kumar P.W.
11 conducted post mortem on the dead body of Shambhu Raut and found 1" X =" penetrating wound, second intercoastal space 4" above left nipple.
On dissection, left lung was found punctured.
Central part of chest cavity was filled with blood and aorta was punctured.
The injuries were, anti-mortem in nature, caused within 24 hours of the examination.
<S1>What is remarkable is that Dr.</S1>
<S1>Vijay Kumar could not ascertain the cause of death.</S1>
On examination, Dr.
Vijay Kumar found the injury situated above nipple on the left side of the chest extending 1" X =" penetrating wound.
On dissection, left lung was found penetrated.
<S1>Dr. Vijay Kumar has not opined that the injury was sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.</S1>
<S1>That was not even stated to be likely to cause death.</S1>
<S1>No attempt was made by Bunnilal Chaudhary to cause serious injury on any vital part of the body of the deceased.</S1>
<S1>There was no motive or intention of Bunnilal Chaudhary to have murdered Shambhu Raut.</S1>
<S1>In other words, looking at the matter objectively, the injury, which Bunnilal Chaudhary intended to cause, did not include specifically the cutting of the left lungs but to wound Shambhu Raut in the neighbourhood of the nipple on left side of chest.</S1>
<S1>As we have shown above, Bunnilal chaudhary did not intend causing death and the first part of Section 299 does not apply.
The second part deals with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.</S1>
<S1>Here again, the intention must be to cause the precise injury likely to cause death and that also, as we have shown above, was not the intention of Bunnilal Chaudhary.</S1>
10 informant who stated that Magister Chaudhary came and surrounded him on the spot.
<S1>No witness has proved that the accused persons had come on the scene of occurrence with an intention to commit the murder of Shambhu Raut.</S1>
<S1>None of them had given any blow to the deceased with the weapons they allegedly were carrying with them.</S1>