Prosecution version in a nutshell is as follows: On 1984 Yadunath Chauhan (hereinafter referred to as the 'deceased') was going from his village Bankat to village Jigirsar for some work.
When he was near the Government Tube-well and the field of Balchand, all the appellants surrounded him.
Time was about 30 a.m.
Appellants Raja Ram and Ram Nath were having 'Spears' while all other had lathis.
On exhortation of accused Ram Prasad, appellants Raja Ram and Ram Nath started assaulting Yadunath with spear and rest with lathi.
On the alarm raised by the victim, his son Babban Chauhan (PW-1), Ram Lal, Roop Narain (PW- 2), Kamal Nath and others were attracted to the scene of occurrence.
Seeing the pressure being mounted with the arrival of witnesses accused persons ran away with their respective weapons.
Babba Chauhan (PW-1) son of the deceased, himself wrote down the First Information Report (Ex.
Ka 1) and carried the same along with victim Yadunath to P.S.
Khejuri where F.I.R.
was recorded and the investigation was undertaken.
After completion of investigation charge sheet was placed.
Ram Prasad, Raja Ram both assaulted the deceased with spear.
In the post-mortem examination two incised penetrating wounds were found, beside five other incised injuries.
As regards Ram Prasad, it was noted that all the witnesses stated that he assaulted the deceased on his head with a lathi.
In the first information report there was a clear statement that these accused persons assaulted the deceased with lathis, Babban Chauhan (PW-1) had also stated about this.
But PWs.
2 and 3 made a departure and stated that only accused Ram Prasad struck a lathi blow on the head of the deceased but others simply waved their lathis to scare the witnesses.
The High Court found this was to be a development to bring their version in line with the medical evidence.
It was noted that since one injury with a blunt weapon was noted, this departure from earlier stand was introduced.
<S1>They were alleged to be armed with lathi.</S1>
<S1>In the first information report there was a clear statement that these appellants also assaulted the deceased with lathi.</S1>
<S1>Babban Chauhan (PW-1) in his examination in chief also stated that all the assailants having lathi were continuously hitting the deceased with lathis.</S1>
<S1>PWs 2 and 3, however, in their deposition made an improvement and developed the case that only Ram Prasad, appellant struck a lathi blow on the head of the deceased, but the acquitted three simply waved their lathis to thwart away the witnesses.</S1>
<S1>It appears that since deceased had only one blunt object injury which is specifically attributed to Ram Prasad alone, the prosecutor did not hesitate to develop the case through the evidence of PWs 2 and 3 that these appellants did not strike any blow of lathi on the deceased but they simply threatened the witnesses by brandishing lathis.</S1>
No such case was put forward in the first information report or at the investigation stage.