PW-1 Bhagyavathi, wife of Thimmappa deceased of village Arebilachi, is the complainant in the case.
Thimmappa was the son of Navilapa.
Navilapa had, in addition, five other sons Devendrappa, Manjappa, Chandrappa, Nagarajappa and Gadigeshappa and two daughters including Ratnamma PW- Navilapa had about 12 acres of ancestral land and he had divided the said land equally between himself and his sons and all were in possession of their respective shares thereafter.
Thimmappa, Devendrappa and Manjappa were residing separately whereas the other two, Chandrappa and Gadigeshappa, were residing in their old family home whereas Nagarajappa was residing with his father Navilapa and his sister Ratnamma.
Thimmappa, however, acquired about 10 acres of land on his own but his brothers Chandrappa and Gadigeshappa were demanding a share out of this land as well and on account of this development, the relationship between the brothers had become strained.
Chandrappa and Gadigeshappa also filed a suit seeking a share in the 10 acres acquired by Thimmappa with the result that the relation between the brothers was further strained.
At about 4 p.m.
on 1993, Thimmappa told his wife Bhagyavathi that he had learnt that Chandrappa and Gadigeshappa had gone to the field to pluck coconuts and that he was going to prevent them from doing so.
Thimmappa and his brother Devendrappa PW3 then left for the fields on a scooter.
A few minutes later Rathnamma PW2, sister-in-law of Bhagyavathi PW-1 came to her house and informed her that she had seen Chandrappa and Gadigeshappa accompanied by their brother-in-law Hanumanthappa, Shiva and Siddeshappa along with Bhoomesha and Manja proceeding towards the field armed with Choppers and sickles and she apprehended some danger.
Bhagyavathi and Rathnamma then left for the field and as they reached the outer fencing at about 30 p.m.
, they saw all the accused as well as Bhoomesha and Manja assaulting Thimmappa with sickles and choppers.
PW3 Devendrappa went to the rescue of his brother but he too was assaulted and having sustained an injury he ran away towards the village.
PWs1 and 2 thereafter entered the garden and saw that Thimmappa was lying grievously injured near the Samadhi adjoining the land.
The accused Siddeshappa and Hanumanthappa also abused and assaulted the two women.
PW4 Prashanth Kumar, who was attracted to the place, rushed in with some water which he attempted to put into Thimmappa's mouth but he succumbed to his injuries at the spot.
PW3 Devendrappa was also taken to the Bhadravathi hospital by PW11 Rudrappa whereas PWs.1,2 and 4 stood near the dead body.
It was also noticed that the accused while running away had left behind a sickle and a club near the dead body.
An FIR was got registered by PW1 Bhagyavathi at about 45 p.m.
at the Police Station.
The investigation was taken over by Inspector M.I.
Jameel PW20 who visited the scene of occurrence on 2nd August 1993 at about 30 a.m.
and prepared the inquest report and recorded the statements of the witnesses and picked up the sickle and club in the presence of witnesses.
His efforts to trace out the accused were, however, not successful till the 3rd August 1993 when he arrested four of them.
Accused no.2 was arrested on He also visited the Government Hospital Bhadravathi on the same day and seized the blood stained clothes of injured PW3 Devendrappa.
<S1>Several weapons of offence were also recovered on the interrogation of the accused.</S1>
The trial court held that it was clear from the record that a dispute existed between Thimmappa and his brothers with regard to the 10 acres of land and that Thimmappa had in fact filed three suits seeking an injunction but the said suits had been dismissed on 3rd April, 1993 itself and as such there was no injunction in favour of Thimmappa on the day of incident.
The court also observed that a Partition Suit which too had been filed, had been compromised after the murder on 5th November 1993 and that no partition had taken place before the aforesaid date and the field in which the incident happened stood in the name of Navilappa and that they had started a plantation on the said land which was being managed by them.
The court also noted that it appeared that in the early hours of 1st August 1993 Navilappa had filed a complaint before the police alleging that his sons Thimmappa deceased and PW3 Devendrappa were obstructing him from entering his land and it therefore appeared that the accused Chandrappa and Gadigeshappa and son Nagarajappa had joined hands to defend their possession when the deceased Thimmappa and Devendrappa PW3 were creating an obstruction.
The court then examined the statements of the witnesses and observed that the FIR did not show the presence of PW4 Prashanth Kumar or the nature of the weapons in the hands of the accused and the story that the accused had snatched a Mangalya with a golden chain from PW1 Bhagyavathi was also an exaggeration.
The court further observed that the police itself appeared to have discarded the presence of Bhoomesha and Manja and had not filed a charge-sheet against them which supported the view that an attempt had been made to rope in innocent people.
The court also observed that the fact that the witnesses who were allegedly 30 meters away from the field of the spot had stood still watching "just like a film shooting" or like "Dumb statues" and this was also circumstance against the prosecution.
The court further observed that there was a delay in the lodging of the FIR which had not been adequately explained away.
The court then went into the medical evidence and opined that PW15 Dr.
Nanda Koti, who had treated the accused and PW3 Devendrappa for their injuries had not informed the police as to what had transpired and that PW3 had mentioned only two of the accused i.e.
Chandrappa and Gadigeshappa as having been present.
The court finally concluded that it was the deceased and injured witnesses who were the aggressors, the moreso as the prosecution had not been able to explain the injuries on the accused.
For arriving at this conclusion, the trial court relied on the evidence of PW15 Dr.
Nanda Koti who had examined three of the accused i.e.
Chandrappa, Shiva and Gadigeshappa for their injuries at the Bhadravathi Government Hospital at 20 p.m.
on 1st August 1993 with a history of assault caused on deceased Thimmappa, PW3 Devendrappa and one Manjappa and had detected one incised injury each on the person of Gadigeshappa and Shiva, both injuries which could have been caused with a sickle or a chopper.
PW15 also examined PW3 at 30 p.m.
the same day who had appeared with a history of assault by Chandrappa and Gadigeshappa.
<S1>It is true that prima facie there appears to be some delay in the lodging of the FIR at 45 p.m.</S1>
<S1>in the light of the fact that incident had happened at 30 p.m.</S1>
<S1>on 1st August However, as three of the accused have put up a counter version, the effect of the delay in the FIR is somewhat reduced.</S1>
<S1>We are also of the opinion that the delay in the lodging of the FIR has been substantially explained as the incident had happened in a remote village some distance from the Police Station and as PW3 had also sustained a serious injury, the first anxiety of the family would have been to look after him the more so as all the brothers of the deceased and PW3 were themselves the assailants and there was nobody else in the family to have taken the injured PW3 to the hospital.</S1>
<S1>It is also significant that the FIR could not have been recorded earlier as the entire family was involved either on one side or the other and it had ultimately been left to a hapless widow, completely isolated from the rest of the family, to lodge the FIR.</S1>
<S1>It has been pointed out that their statements were discrepant as to the actual manner of assault and as to the injuries caused by each of the accused to the deceased and to PW3 the injured eye witnesections We are of the opinion that in such matters it would be unreasonable to expect a witness to give a picture perfect report of the injuries caused by each witness to the deceased or the injured more particularly where it has been proved on record that the injuries had been caused by several accused armed with different kinds of weapons.</S1>
<S1>We also find that with the passage of time the memory of an eye witness tends to dim and it is perhaps difficult for a witness to recall events with precision.</S1>
<S1>We have gone through the record and find that the evidence had been recorded more than 5 years after the incident and if the memory had partly failed the eye witnesses and if they had not been able to given an exact description of the injuries, it would not detract from the substratum of their evidence.</S1>
<S1>It is however very significant that PW2 is the sister of the 5 appellants, the deceased and PW3 Devendrappa and in the dispute between the brothers she had continued to reside with her father Navilappa who was residing with the appellants, but she has nevertheless still supported the prosecution.</S1>
<S1>We are of the opinion that in normal circumstances she would not have given evidence against the appellants but she has come forth as an eye witness and supported the prosecution in all material particulars.</S1>
10.
Some emphasis has also been laid by the learned counsel on the fact that as per injury certificates exhibitP-27 to P-29 that three accused had suffered injuries in the incident.
<S1>It is however clear from a perusal of these documents that out of the three, only one of the accused had sustained a simple injury on the hand and the other two had no discernible injury except a complaint of a backache in the case of Shiva.</S1>
On the other hand, we have the evidence of PW15 Dr.
Nanda Koti who had examined Devendrappa on the evening of the day of incident with a history of attack with a sickle and club and she had found the following 5 injuries on his person: i) lacerated would over occipital region 3 cms X 1 cm bleeding.
ii) Stab injury over right arm, lower and posterior aspect 1 cm X = cm covered with fresh blood clots.
iii) Incised wound over web space between right thumb and index finger 3 cm X 1cm X = covered with fresh blood clots.
iv) Contusion over middle of a shin of left leg 6 cm X 4 cm red.
v) Contusion with club impression over left side of the chest 6 cms X 2 cms red.
11.
<S1>It is clear from the record that the accused had come to the place of incident fully armed with the object to sort things out with the deceased as he was creating problems for them and their father over the land in question and to remove him from the scene once and for all.</S1>