These appeals by special leave arise out of the following facts: 3.
On the morning of 3rd December 1975, one Shekhar Singh, resident of Village Moory was assaulted by some of the 2 accused.
Later on information was conveyed to Bhagwati Devi that her sons-in-law, Lakshman Singh and Bacha Singh and her son Nathuni Singh had been surrounded by the accused in the Khalihan of one Marua Singh with a view to commit their murder.
Bhagwati Devi, accompanied by her daughter and son, went to the Khalihan of Marua Singh and when she reached there, she saw the accused persons, 13 in all, armed with guns, spears, pharsas and lathis etc.
standing on the road outside the Khalihan whereas her two sons-in-law and her son were inside.
She also heard accused Chirkut Singh asking them to come out of the Khalihan and he also opened fire hitting Bacha Singh on which, he fell down.
Lakshman Singh thereafter opened fire with a country-made gun in self defence hitting Kishore Singh, as a result of which, he too fell down on the ground.
Thereafter, accused Jang Bahadur Singh fired a shot with his weapon hitting Lakshman Singh, and accused Bashishta Singh also fired his weapon hitting Nathuni Singh and they both fell on the ground.
The other accused thereafter gave blows with lathis to Nathuni Singh.
In the meanwhile Sachmucha Devi, the father's sister of 3 Nathuni Singh covered his body with her own and received gun butt/lathi blows given allegedly by accused Jang Bahadur Singh.
It further appears that the accused persons started dragging Lakshman Singh and Bacha Singh in a southerly direction and also assaulted them which resulted in their deaths on the spot.
On hearing the alarm raised by Bhagwati Devi, her co-villagers namely Bajranghi Singh and Chariter Singh reached the place and also witnessed the incident.
The accused then ran away carrying Nand Kishore Singh with them.
Bhagwati Devi then rushed to the Police Station, Chainpur on which an FIR was registered for offences punishable under Sections 147,148,149,302,307 and 325 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and under Section 25(a) of the Arms Act against all the thirteen accused and on completion of the investigation, they were charged under the aforesaid offences and as they pleaded innocence, they were brought to trial.
The facts of the case reveal that the I.O.
could not be examined, as in the meanwhile he had migrated to Pakistan and had died there and it is in this situation that the trial Judge feeling handicapped on account of the non- examination of the I.O.
(though the witnesses had been confronted with their previous statements) had a look into the case diary as an additional factor to test the veracity of the witnesses.
It is true that the I.O.
of the case has not been examined but for that the prosecution is not to be blamed because I have been told during the course of argument by the learned Addl.
P.P.
that in spite of his best efforts the I.O.
could not turn up for his evidence and it was reported that the I.O.
Shri M.Mallik Khan, who was a Muslim gentlemen left the country for Pakistan after his retirement and he died over there and besides that, on perusal of the statements of prosecution witnesses I find that the attention of PW3 was drawn towards his previous statement before the I.O.
in Para 15 of his cross- examination.
And similarly the attention of PW4 was drawn towards his earlier statement made before the police in Para 12 of his cross-examination.
But no such attention was drawn to the first informant, who is PW Likewise the attention of PW6 was drawn toward her earlier statement made before the police in Paras 2 and 9 of her cross- examination.
<S1>The attention of PW7 was drawn towards her earlier statement in Para 4 of her cross-examination and that of PW8 was drawn towards his earlier statement in Paras 12 and 14 of his cross- examination.</S1>
And I have also perused the case diary in order to appreciate the evidence u/s 172 (2) 9 Cr.
P.C.
and found that even if the I.O.
<S1>would have been examined no material contradiction could have come out in the statements of the witnesses examined on behalf of the prosecution because on material points all the witnesses examined before the police have stated that accused Chirkut Singh gave a fatal shot to deceased Bacha Singh, whereas accused Jang Bahadur gave a fatal shot to deceased Lakshman Singh.</S1>
And while describing the alleged P.O.
the I.O.
<S1>has fully corroborated this fact that he had found the trail of dragging of deceased Lakshman Singh and Bacha Singh from the Khalihan of one Marua Singh.</S1>
<S1>It appears to be the admitted case that the deceased and some members of the accused party were closely related to each other and that the incident had occurred as Gati 10 Kunwar, the widow of Ram Lakhan Singh had executed a deed of relinquishment in respect of her landed property in favour of the father of PW8 Nathuni Singh, though a part of that land was being cultivated by the accused.</S1>
<S1>The trial court also found that PW5 Bhagwati Devi had admitted in her statement that her husband Ram Dev Singh had sent for the deceased Lakshman Singh and Bacha Singh, their sons-in-law before the alleged occurrence, and that Lakshman Singh had also come to the place armed with a country made weapon.</S1>
<S1>The court has also observed that that it was equally true that the accused Muni Singh, Brahma Singh and Durga Singh belonged to village Bakurahan, accused Bashishta Singh to village Fakrabad and accused Badri Singh to village Bhadayee whereas accused Muni Singh and Brahma Singh had admitted in the statement u/s 313 Cr.</S1>
P.C.
<S1>that they were relations of Nand Kishore Singh deceased, whereas accused Bashistha Singh was the brother-in-law of Chirkut Singh and Jang Bahadur Singh and Durga Singh accused was also related to accused Bachan Singh.</S1>
<S1>We have examined the statement of PW5 Bhagwati Devi, the first informant, who deposed that 5 or 6 days before the occurrence, Chirkut Singh's crop had been burnt on which a complaint had been lodged against her sons-in-law (the deceased), her son and her husband and that Chirkut Singh had threatened her sons-in-law that they would be beaten.</S1>
She also stated that Lakshman Singh often carried a country- made gun though he had no licence for it.
<S1>It is apparent from her evidence that a free fight between the parties had taken place during the course of which several shots had been fired resulting in three deaths from both groups.</S1>
<S1>The stand taken 12 by Bhagwati Devi has been supported on material points by the other prosecution witnesses.</S1>
<S1>We are of the opinion in the facts stated above, that both the parties appeared to be itching for a fight and had collected their relatives and supporters from far and between to augment their strength.</S1>
<S1>Accused Chirkut Singh who has been attributed the gun shot injury on Bacha Singh and Jang Bahadur Singh who had likewise given a fatal injury to Lakshman Singh must be held liable for offences punishable under section 302 Indian Penal Code, 1860 and section 27 of the Arms Act.</S1>