The aforesaid criminal case was registered on the basis of an information submitted by Parasnath Dubey who was PW-1 contending inter alia that on 1981 at about 5 p.m.
, he alongwith his father, Ram Abhilakh deceased, were returning back to their home from Lalganj Bazaar.
While said Ram Abhilakh Dubey was standing at the crossing of Setha Road at the shop of Ram Kishore Barayee for taking betel, the accused persons, all of a sudden, came there whereupon the accused Shobhanath and Triveni Prasad instigated other accused persons, namely Doodhnath, Vijai Pal (both sons of Ram Kumar), accused Knasu (son of Doodhnath) at which all of them attacked him.
It was also stated in the said information that first of all Vijai Pal stabbed him with a knife and other accused persons thereafter started beating him with lathis and that as a result of the said assault, he had fallen on the ground.
It was stated that an alarm was raised by Parasnath Dubey because of which Ram Kripal, Ram Bahal, Parasnath and Lalta Prasad and other reached there and saw the occurrence.
A report of the incident was lodged at the Police Station Gauriganj District Sultanpur on 1981 at about 35 2 p.m.
Ram Abhilakh Dubey later on succumbed to the injuries i.e.
on 1981 at 30 p.m.
3.
The deceased Ram Abhilakh Dubey who received injuries on 1981 in the aforesaid incident was taken to the hospital at Gauriganj where he was medically examined and an Injury Report was also prepared by the doctor examining him at the hospital Gauriganj, who looking at the grievous nature of injuries received by him sent him to the District Hospital, Sultanpur as his condition was deteriorating.
After the death of Ram Abhilakh who died in the hospital on 1984 at about 30 p.m.
, the post mortem examination was done on 1981 at about 10 p.m.
On the basis of the aforesaid written report, a First Information Report was prepared at the Police Station and entries in the General Diary were made.
The complainant and the informant Parasnath Dubey (PW-1) was examined as an eye-witness to the occurrence.
Besides him, there were two other eye witnesses who were also named in the FIR namely Lalta Prasad (PW-3) and Ram Bahal Singh (PW-6) who were also examined in support of the case of the prosecution.
According to their statements, they both witnessed the occurrence.
7.
Dr.
D.R.Singh examined Ram Abhilakh Dubey when he was taken to the Primary Health Centre and he prepared an Injury Report.
He was examined in the trial as PW-7 and he proved the number of injuries suffered by the deceased on He conducted the aforesaid examination which is after the occurrence i.e.
at about 15 p.m.
8.
Dr.
A.C.
Joshi who has conducted the post mortem was examined as PW-5 and the post mortem report was exhibited as Ext.
Ka- 4 9.
<S1>So far as discrepancies between the statements of the eye witnesses and the medical evidences as pointed out by the High Court are concerned, the same appear to be based on misreading of the evidence on record.</S1>
The incident herein took place at about 5 p.m.
on It was the month of November, but at 5 p.m.
<S1>, there would be still day light.</S1>
<S1>It has also come in evidence that the deceased had gone to Gauriganj Bazaar alongwith PW-1 as it was a market day.</S1>
<S1>In a market day people usually go to the market and therefore presence of PW-1 with deceased on that particular day also appears to be natural.</S1>
The place of occurrence is near a betel shop where the deceased had gone for taking betel.
<S1>The place of occurrence is a tri-junction and by the shop of Ram 8 Kishore Barayee where the deceased had gone to take betel when the accused persons allegedly attacked him with a knife and lathis in their hands.</S1>
It is stated in the First Information Report and also in the statements of the eye-witnesses that the Vijai Pal had a knife and other respondents had lathis in their hands and that at the instigation of Triveni Prasad and Shobhanath, Vijay Pal inflicted knife blow on the deceased whereas the other accused-respondents started beating by means of lathis.
The First Information Report was taken down at the Police Station on 1981 at 35 p.m.
and medical examination was done at 1981 at 15 p.m.
Injury Report which is proved as Ext.
Ka-11 states that about five injuries were found on the body of Ram Abhilakh when he was taken to the Primary Health Centre.
In the post mortem examination also, five injuries were found on the body of the deceased.
<S1>Said injuries found in the post mortem examination when compared with the injuries recorded in the injury report, it would be established that all the injuries are similar in nature.</S1>
<S1>So far as Inquest Report is concerned, the same is prepared by the police who are not experts like the doctors and therefore no such weightage could be given on the Inquest Report.</S1>
The incident had happened at about 5 p.m.
and the said fact was reported to the Police at 30 p.m.
PW-1, the informant who was the son of the deceased in his statement has clearly stated in detail as to how the incident has taken place and as to why he did not intervene when his father was being assaulted by the said accused persons.
<S1>He has stated that he could not immediately get any mode of conveyance to take his father to the Police Station or to the hospital and he had to wait for some time for getting a conveyance to enable him to shift his father to the Police Station which they reached at about 30 p.m.</S1>
when report was recorded.
The victim was examined in the Primary Health Centre at about 15 p.m.
i.e.
within 45 minutes of the incident being reported to the Police.
That being so, it 10 cannot be said that there was any undue delay either in reporting the incident to the police or taking the victim to the hospital.
24.
<S1>But, it is proved and established on record that the entire incident as it happened was mentioned in the First Information Report wherein the name of the eye-witnesses were also mentioned.</S1>
<S1>The informant examined himself as PW- He narrated the entire incident as it happened on the day of occurrence and he was cross-examined at length, but his evidence could not be shaken.</S1>
<S1>He had also explained the circumstances for which he was not been assaulted by the accused persons.</S1>
<S1>He also stated in his deposition that he had not taken any such step to catch hold any of such accused persons on account of fear and also because he did not have any weapon in his hands.</S1>
Further, he has categorically stated that he raised alarm to save his father from the assault by accused persons.
The said evidence of PW-1 appear to us to be cogent and natural.
<S1>The same also gets corroborated by the evidence of other two eye witnesses namely PW-3 and PW-6 and also by the medical evidence namely the Injury Report and the Post mortem Report.</S1>
The date of the incident was a market day at Gauriganj and therefore it was natural that persons from the nearby areas would go to the market place.
Therefore, PW-1 accompanying his father on the date of the incident to the market and PW-3 and PW-6 being present at the place of occurrence cannot be said to be unnatural.
So far as the dying declaration of the deceased is concerned, the same apparently was not recorded either by the Police Officer or by the doctor.
<S1>There is some doubt about making of such dying declaration by the deceased and therefore, the dying declaration said to have been made by the victim was not correctly relied on by the High Court.</S1>
But even if the said dying declaration is taken out of purview of the evidence on record, even then the statements of the eye-witnesses can under no circumstances be doubted and held as untrustworthy.