The prosecution case is that on 18.10.1993 at about 5.45 a.m. the deceased
Mangalanand Pandey and his brother Ranganath Pandey (PW 2) were putting up a
`machan' (a bamboo platform for holding vegetable creepers) at a place
adjacent to the `dalan' of their house towards the West. The 'dalan' and the
cow shed of the appellant Ram Pravesh Pandey was adjacent to the land where
the `machan' was being erected. The eight accused came there and started
abusing the deceased and PW 2. At that juncture, the son of the deceased by
name Ram Bachan Pandey PW 10 together with his grand father went to the place
and advised the accused - appellants not to pick up quarrel. The accused were
in the posture of assaulting them. All the three went running to the house of
deceased and closed the doors. The accused followed them to the doorway of the
house and continued abusing them. Then PW 10 and the deceased shifted to the
roof of the house for safety. Thereafter, the accused excepting Mithilesh
Pandey and Ramkeshwar Pandey also got into the roof of the house of Sriniwas
Pandey (A-4) and started pelting stones and brickbats to hit the deceased and
his companions. Mithilesh and Ramkeshwar remained in the lane nereby and
continued abusing. While so the appellant Srinivas Pandey fetched a rifle from
his house and gave it to Dinesh Pandey who fired at the deceased causing
injury on the upper portion of his left arm. Then, the deceased together with
others came down. The injured person (deceased) was put on a cot and he was
being taken by PW 10, PW 2, PW 9 and one Ranganath Tiwari (not examined) for
treatment. At about 7.15 a.m., when they came past the `dalan' of Ram Narayan
Pandey (PW 7), the accused, armed with lathis, gandasas and rifles, were
rushing towards them uttering the words -`Maro salon ko'.

Seeing them PW 10 and his party fled, keeping the cot on which the injured
victim lay, in front of the house of PW 7. PW 10 ran inside a room located
near the 'dalan' of Ram Narayan Pandey and started watching the incident
through the window. The uncle PW 2 ran towards the village. However, Ranganath
Tiwari (not examined) and PW 9 remained there at some distance. Dinesh Pandey
(whose SLP was dismissed) fired at the deceased who was lying unconscious on
the cot.

<S3>The appellants Srinivas Pandey and Ram Pravesh Pandey exhorted the accused
Dinesh to fire again saying that the victim was still alive.

Dinesh then fired two or three more shots before the accused dispersed. The
victim died instantaneously.</S3> At about 9.30 a.m. the Sub- Inspector of Police -
PW 11 reached the place and recorded the 'Fard Bayan' of PW 10 which is
treated as F.I.R. (Exhibit 3). PW 11 inspected the two places of occurrence,
seized blood stained earth, brick bats, remains of cartridges etc. and
prepared the inquest report. The dead body was sent for post-mortem. The
autopsy was conducted by the Medical Officer of Sadar Hospital PW 4 on the
same day evening. PW 12 filed the charge sheet. The Additional Sessions Judge
Rohtas held the trial after committal and found the accused guilty of the
offence with which they were charged.
