The prosecution story is that accused persons had not been happy with the
deceased Sindhubai. She was the second wife of Ramesh. They were married about
three years prior to the incident but she did not bear any child to Ramesh.
According to the statement of the deceased to the police, the accused persons
wanted her to be turned out of the house and Ramesh had started developing
relations with Sunanda sister of Laxmi. They planned to drive out the deceased
from the house so that Ramesh could marry Sunanda. It is said that on
12.3.1992 a quarrel took place in the house. The husband, the sister-in-law
Laxmi, her sons and Venubai wanted the deceased to leave the house but she did
not.

She was also given beating On the date of incident, namely, 17.3.1992 at
about 8.30 A.M. again a quarrel took place amongst the persons indicated above
and the deceased in which <S3>Venubai is said to have beaten her with a bamboo
stick. Thereafter Dhanraj, Subhash and Sukhdeo caught hold of Sindhubai and
Laxmibai and Venubai brought two bottles of kerosene oil and sprinkled the
same on the body of Sindhubai and Ramesh lighted a match stick and threw it
upon Sindhubai who caught fire. PW-1 Umesh, brother of the deceased who was
present in the house poured some water on Sindhubai. Thereafter he rushed to
inform his parents.

Sindhubai fell down in the Courtyard. She, however, went to the Primary Health
Centre, Warud all alone by herself by a Jeep upto Sunoli Naka and then by a
Rikshaw. No one from her in-laws or husband accompanied her. The Medical
Officer of the Primary Health Centre, Warud examined her and informed the
police. She also informed the police to arrange for recording of the dying
declaration of the deceased. On the information received from PHC Warud, PW-9
Sheshrao, P.S.I. also came to the hospital and recorded her statement. He
obtained the thumb impression of Sindhubai on the statement which is marked as
Ex.55. On the basis of the said statement he registered a case under Section
307/34 IPC as Crime No.76/92. Naib Tehsildar also came to the PHC and recorded
statement of the deceased.The doctor thereafter referred her to the General
Hospital, Amravati. Sindhubai however died in the hospital on 22.3.1992</S3>
whereupon the case was converted to one under Section 302 IPC.
