The prosecution case unfolded in the trial court is that on 19.7.1984 at about
4 p.m., both the deceased Mohan Lal and Ram Kumar were playing cards at the
Dera of Baba Asa Nath with Ram Sarup and Diwas Singh alias Dana; that Ram
Singh, PW 3, brother of Mohan Lal deceased and Ram Kishen, PW 4, brother of
Ram Kumar deceased were also present there watching the game; that some other
persons were also playing the game of cards 'Chaupat'; that it appears, an
altercation took place between Mohan Lal and Ram Kumar on one side and Ram
Sarup on the other; that Mohan Lal was taken to his house by his brother Ram
Singh; that Ram Kumar and Ram Sarup also left for their houses. Further, it
was submitted that on the same day, the last rites ceremony of one Kundan
Gujar also took place and about 70-80 persons had gathered; that Ram Singh and
Ram Kishan participated in serving food to the guests and they took their food
at 11 p.m. and continued to sit there smoking 'Huqa'; that PW 3, Ram Singh and
PW4, Ram Kishan and the two deceased Mohan Lal and Ram Kumar left for their
houses at about 1 or 1.30 a.m. [intervening night between 19.7.1984 and
20.7.1984]; that both the deceased were little ahead of Ram Singh and Ram
Kishan, who were following them and as they reached near the Dera of Baba Asa
Nath, the accused was found lying in his 'chabutra' and smoking a biri; that
the accused shouted towards Mohan Lal as to why he was passing from there at
that hour; that Ram Kumar was a little behind at that time and Mohan Lal
answered that it was a thoroughfare and anybody could come and go; that at
this <S3>Ram Sarup picked up his gun, loaded it and fired at Mohan Lal hitting on
the right side of his chest on the front side; that by that time Ram Kishan
and Ram Singh had taken shelter near the wall of the Dera; that as Ram Kumar
asked the accused as to why he had fired a shot and advanced towards him, the
accused fired at him also hitting on the right chest; that the accused also
fired towards Ram Singh and Ram Kishan, but they escaped as they were taking
shelter near the wall of the Dera; that the shots had been fired towards them
because both Ram Singh and Ram Kishan had shouted towards the accused as to
why he had fired at their companions. Ram Kumar after receipt of the injury
had fallen down on the charpai lying on the Chabutra of Ram Sarup and he got
up from there after a few minutes and collapsed after covering 4/5 paces. The
accused in the mean while after loading his gun had run away towards his
fields. Both Mohan Lal and Ram Kumar were found dead.</S3> Brij Lal, Chowkidar and
Sadhu Ram, Sarpanch came to the spot and were told of the incident. The two PW
3 and PW4 went to the village and remained throughout the night out of fear of
the accused. On the next day PW3-Ram Singh lodged a report with the police at
about 10.50 a.m. and also made a special statement to a Constable Ram Chander-
PW 9 and the report reached the Magistrate at 1 p.m. on 20.7.1984 at
Fatehabad. ASI Rajbir Singh prepared inquest reports regarding the dead bodies
of Mohan Lal and Ram Kumar and conducted investigation after preparing a spot
Panchnama. He also seized the charpai which was taken into possession. Dr.
D.L. Bansal, PW 2, performed the post mortem examination on the dead body of
Ram Kumar, while Dr. S.K. Dogra, PW 1, performed the post mortem examination
on the dead body of Mohan Lal. They noted that the cause of death was the fire
arm injuries sustained by each one of them and described the nature of the
injuries. On 26.7.1984 the accused Ram Sarup was arrested from Bhuna and the
gun, which was licensed, was also seized from him along with cartridges. The
prosecution examined 10 witnesses in all. The accused claimed that he was
innocent and stated that a false case had been made out against him by the
Sarpanch.

