Appellant No.1 Munuswamy is the father of appellants 2 and 3, namely Kumaresan
and Selvam. It is the case of the prosecution that on 28th April, 1989 at
about 3.00 p.m. while PW.3 Adhimoolam was drying beedi leaves, appellant No.1
came at about 4.00 p.m. and waited by the side of the road. About half an hour
later deceased Ravi came on a bicycle. He was followed by appellants 2 and 3
who also reached the place of occurrence following him. Appellant No.1 stopped
the deceased while appellants 2 and 3 who came from behind dashed their
bicycle against the bicycle of the deceased. The deceased left his bicycle and
started running away chased by the appellants.

Ultimately the accused over-powered him and while appellant No.1 caught hold
of the right hand of the deceased, accused No.2 caught hold of the left hand
of the deceased. <S3>Appellant No.1 ordered that the deceased should be stabbed
and immediately appellant No.3 took out a pen knife from his hip and stabbed
the deceased on the right side of his chest.</S3> They dragged the deceased and
made him lie down near the road. This incident was also witnessed by Ravi, PW.
4 who was grazing his cattle near the scene of occurrence. They reported the
matter to the father of the deceased who went to the police station and lodged
the complaint. After investigation, the appellants were put up for trail and
were ultimately found guilty of the offences as earlier noticed.

The medical evidence on record disclosed the following injuries on the body of
the deceased :-

1\. An incised gaping wound 8 cm x 3 cm over (R) interior aspect of chest at
the level of right nipple with exposing muscle and rib (4th) beneath.

2) A lacerated wound 3 cm x 2 cm x bone depth seen over ( R ) side of parietal
region.

3) An abrasion 3 cm x 2 cm seen over ( R ) leg.

4) An abrasion 4 cm x 3 cm seen over ( R ) buttock region.

On Internal examination : Thorax : An incised wound 6 cm x 2 cm x lung beneath
seen on the anterior aspect of pleura with 1200 ml. of bloody fluid in the ( R
) Throacic cavity. Lungs : Right lung 510 g. wt. An incised wound 2 cm in
breath over the edge of medical aspect of upper lobe of right lung. C/s.
normal appearance and pale. Left Lung : 500 gms. wt. C/s. normal appearance
and pale.

Heart : 340 g. wt. Great vessels on the anterior aspect of the Aorta a cm x cm
punctured like wound seen at the root of Aorta with clotted blood coming out.
On pressure from the Aorta." According to PW.2, the doctor who conducted the
post mortem examination on the body of the deceased, the deceased died of
shock and hemorrhage due to injury on vital organs. It is also the case of the
prosecution that the deceased died almost instantaneously.
