Briefly stated the facts are as follows:

The Appellant got married to Dr. Anjum Ara on 31st May, 1994.

On 14th February, 1995, the Dispur Police Station received a telephonic
message from one Dr. Kalpana Sharma (P.W. 1) that a woman had died under
suspicious circumstances. On the basis of this information a diary entry was
made. The police then went to the place of occurrence. There they found Dr.
Anjum Ara lying dead on the bed.

The father of the deceased, who is the Sub Divisional Officer, was informed
telephonically about the death.

The police initially arrested the Appellant (who is the husband of the
deceased) as well as one Bhaskar Ali (P.W. 3), who was a servant in the house.
The father of the deceased gave information, which is treated as FIR, that his
daughter had reportedly committed suicide "by hanging inside the bathroom".
The diary entry dated 15th February, 1995 records that the father of the
deceased had informed in writing that he does not have any suspicion and that
it was purely a case of suicide. The diary entry records that after post-
mortem, the body would be taken to their home town Gopalgunj and that he (i.e.
the father-in-law) would take his son-in-law also with them.

During post-mortem examination. the Doctor (P.W. 8) found the following
injuries:

"Injuries (1) Abrasion '5cm x '3cm size present at 2 cm above the tip of nose
and '5 cm left to midline.

(2) Abrasion '7 cm x '3 cm size on front of lower end of left ear 1 cm below
the tragus (projecting part of ear).

(3) Contusion '7 cm x '5 cm size present just below the lower jaw 4 cm right
to midline.

(4) Contusion 1 cm x 1 cm size present at 1.5 cm below the mid point of chin.

(5) Abrasion 1 cm x '5 cm in size present at 1 cm below the lower jaw at 1.5
cm right to midline.

(6) Contusion 2 cm x 1.5 cm in size present on lower border of lower jaw 4 cm
left to midline.

(7) Bite mark oval in shape 3.5 cm x 2 cm size on back of left forearm 2 cm
above wrist joint at middle.

(8) Bite mark oval in shape 4 cm x 3 cm in size on back of right forearm 1.5
cm above the wrist joint at middle.

(9) Abrasion 1.5 cm x .5 cm in size on the back of right elbow joint on ulnar
side.

(10) Contusion 2.5 cm x 1.5 cm size on outer aspect of right arm 8 cm above
lateral epicundile (on elbow).

(11) Contusion 2.5 cm x 1.5 cm size on front of left leg just above the
patella at middle.

(12) Contusion 4 cm x 1.5 cm size on inner side of right knee joint 1 cm below
the patella.

(13) Scratch abrasion 3 cm x 2 cm size on the outer aspect of left wrist joint
1 cm above the styloid process of left radius.

(14) Bite marks oval in shape 2 cm x 3 cm in size on outer aspect of right
forearm 2 cm above the styloid process of radius of right hand.

All the contusions were read in colour.

(15) One oblique and non continuous ligature mark measuring 25 cm in length
and 1.5 cm in breadth present high up on the neck. In front the ligature mark
touches just above the thyroid preminance at midline and on left side ligature
mark, extends upto a point 1 cm below the lower end of left ear lebula and on
the right side the upper end of ligature mark extends upto the midline 4 cm
below the occiput.

The upper border of ligature mark on right side shows grazed abrasions .5 to 1
cm wide directing upwards and backwards." The Doctor opined that the injuries
were ante-mortem and homicidal in nature. The Doctor opined that the injuries
were not self inflicted or accidental.

After receipt of the post-mortem report on 22nd February, 1995 the father of
the deceased gave a second report to the police.<S3> Now he alleged that his
daughter had been murdered by her husband. He alleged that she had been so
murdered for non-fulfillment of demand of dowry made by the Appellant.</S3> The
Appellant was therefore charged under Sections 302 and 304-B of the Indian
Penal Code. The Appellant pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

