Alamgir, the appellant herein being a resident of Pakistan was married to Ms.
Hazra (known by the name of Halima after marriage). The factual score depicts
that on 17th September, 1991, the appellant came to Delhi along with his wife
Hazra @ Halima and they checked in in a hotel at Darya Ganj (Royal Inn Guest
House) on 18th September, 1991 at about 8.50 p.m. Upon registration in the
guest registration book, the appellant and his wife, who was in Burqa, were
allotted Room No.107 and the key was handed over to Alamgir. On 19th
September, 1991, Alamgir, however, went out and brought some break-fast and at
or about 10.15 in the morning, he reported at the counter informing therewith
that the wife being left alone in the hotel room ought not to be disturbed and
that he would be back soon. Alamgir, however, the factual score depict, did
not return till 20th and the Manager of the hotel by reason of not being able
to get any response from the room after several attempts, opened the room with
the duplicate key in the presence of one Dinesh Chand and found that </S3>the
deceased was lying on the bed covered with a red dupatta.</S3> Immediately
thereafter, however, the police was informed and Sub-inspector Rajbir Singh
reached at the hotel and recorded the statement of the Manager of the hotel.
The Crime Branch was called along with photographer and upon completion of all
necessary formalities, the dead body was sent for post- mortem and the FIR
being No.357/91 was registered around 12.25 in the afternoon.

Incidentally, the police found two slips near the dead body.

one of the papers indicated "7 A Jaitkar House Tandel Street Room No.3, Mal
Bazar, Bombay 3" and something was written in Urdu thereon. The other paper
slip was a photo of receipt A.V. 187318, 18.7.90 bearing photo and signatures
of Alamgir. On its backside 50690, 235472, and Assistant Director, D.R.O.
Karachi (West) was printed and sealed respectively. Some injury marks were
noticed on the neck of the deceased.

The further factual score depicts that on 21st September, 1991 on receipt of
some secret information at about 2.20 p.m. by the CID, Bombay Unit, at 2.45
p.m. Inspector Naresh Talvalkar along with Inspector Dhoble and other
Constables reached in front of Caf Rahim Restaurant and found a person
standing opposite Caf Rahim Restaurant. They arrested that person, namely, the
accused Alamgir. On his personal search the accused was found holding a brown
colour rexine pouch in his hand containing a key ring with a brass letter 'R'
and No.107 written on it along with passport of the accused. residential
permit as well as Pakistani I card of the accused and Pakistani passport of
Ms. Halima Noor Jamal, her residential permit and one copy of I. Card form of
the Halima and ticket from Delhi to Bombay along with 100 rupee notes in
Indian currency and Pakistani currency. Assistant Police Commissioner, Darya
Ganj, Delhi was contacted and it was confirmed that accused Alamgir was wanted
in the case under Section 302 IPC in FIR No. 357 of 1991.

On 21st September, 1991 Delhi Police received the information of arrest of
accused Alamgir. SI Rajbir Singh was deputed to leave for Bombay for
investigation. The post mortem examination was also conducted on 21st
September, 1991.

However, the body was directed to be preserved. Necessary formalities were
completed by the Bombay Police. Accused was produced on 22nd September, 1991
before the Additional CMM, Bombay. On 24th September, 1991 Delhi Police
arrived in Bombay. All the articles which the Bombay Police had recovered from
the accused were handed over to Delhi Police. SI Rajbir Singh met Inspector
Talvalkar on 24th September, 1991, formally arrested accused Alamgir,
conducted his personal search, produced before MM Mr. Shinde and obtained the
remand. He interrogated the accused, who made certain disclosure statements.

According to the prosecution, accused Alamgir from Delhi had given a
telephonic call to Shamim Bano, sister of the deceased at Bombay and asked her
to call his father who had come from Pakistan. But his father was not
available in the house. Alamgir also told that Hazra had died in bus accident.
Shamim Bano told all these facts to the police after three-four days at
Bombay.

Smt. Safiya Tazim Ali, mother of the deceased stated that Hazra was married
six-seven months prior to murder. Alamgir, accused told her (mother-in-law)
and other members of her family that Hazra had died in a bus accident and she
had been cremated at the cremation ground in Nizamuddin. About 3 or 4 days
prior to the arrival of the police at the house of Smt. Safiya Tazim Ali, he
had come to her house in Bombay. He had kept two bags in her house which were
recovered by the police. Both the bags contained clothes of her deceased
daughter.

