The prosecution case found proved by the Trial Court and the High Court is
that the deceased Venkayamma @ Rathamma, age about 70 years, resident of
village Edugundlapadu (P.S.

Maddipadu) was collecting the branches of trees at about 10 a.m. on 8.7.1994
in the garden known as 'Subabul Garden' belonging to PW4. The accused who was
employed as watchman by the owner of the garden came to the garden and found
the deceased alone. She was wearing bangles which assuming to be of gold were
asked for by the accused which the deceased refused to give saying that the
same were of brass.

Then the accused demanded the pair of ear studs which the deceased was
wearing. She refused to part with the ear studs.

<S3>The accused picked up a piece of stone and with it hit on the head of the
deceased as a result of which she fell down. The accused took the sickle from
the deceased and inflicted injuries on the person of the deceased with sickle.
He also cut the ear lobes of the deceased with the sickle so as to remove the
ear studs. In this process the clothes of the accused got stained with blood.
The accused then left the garden. While leaving the garden he was noticed by
PW2, another watchman of the garden, and PW3, a shepherd. At the same time
PWs2 and 3 heard some noise emanating from inside the garden whereupon they
entered the garden and found the deceased lying injured.

On questioning, the injured narrated the incident as had taken place with her
and naming the accused-appellant. PW1 is the sister of the deceased living in
the same village who also rushed to the place of the incident upon learning
about the incident. To her also the deceased narrated what had happened to
her. The deceased named the accused to PW1 also. The injured was removed to
government hospital, Ongole and admitted for treatment. PW10, the duty doctor
found the following injuries on the person of Venkayamma :

1\. Incised wound 1" x ". 3" below right ear. Blood oozing from it.

2\. Cut injury 1" x " in lower part of both ears. Ear lobes lost.

3\. Red contusion 6" x 4" right side of the neck.

4\. Red contusion 2" x 2" on right side of the head 4" above right ear.

5\. Contusion 2" x 1" at left eye.

Venkayamma, when examined by the doctor, was unconscious. She was unable to
speak and was not moving her left upper and lower limbs. Two days thereafter
she died.</S3> The post-mortem examination confirmed a number of injuries having
been suffered by the deceased internally consequent upon the external
injuries. In the opinion of the doctor performing post- mortem, contusions on
the person of Venkayamma could have been caused by stone while incised wound
and cut injury could have been caused by sickle. The head injury was the cause
of death.

