The informant Shyam Mohan Rastogi, PW.4 is the uncle of the appellants being
the cousin of their father. The deceased Shankar Rastogi was the son of the
informant PW.4. It is alleged that in an occurrence which took place at about
7.00 p.m. on 12.11.1985 he was shot dead by appellant Nandu Rastogi. It is the
case of the prosecution that the three accused, alongwith two unknown persons,
came armed with country made pistols and perpetrated the crime. According to
the prosecution the background in which this occurrence took place, and which
also discloses the motive for the offence, is that the informant PW.4 owned a
house which he sold to one Braj Kishore Rastogi, who in turn sold the said
house to appellant Nandji Rastogi. Manjoor Ansari, PW.1 was the tenant of a
shop in that building, but Nandji Rastogi was pressurising him to vacate the
premises. Shankar, (deceased) son of the informant, took the side of Manjoor
Ansari and declared that he will not permit Nandji Rastogi to forcibly evict
him. He even threatened that he may challenge the sale of the house by his
father since his father had no legal authority to sell his share in the house.
It appears from the evidence on record that Manjoor Ansari is on good terms
with the informant and his family members and continued to occupy the shop
premises even on the date of occurrence.

The case of the prosecution as disclosed in the First Information Report
lodged by PW.4 at 8.00 p.m. on 12th November, 1985, soon after the occurrence,
is that at about 5.00 p.m. the informant was sitting in his shop, namely,
Shankar Stores, alongwith his tenant Ayodhya Tiwari, PW.5 when Nandji Rastogi
came there and warned the informant to caution his son that he should not
interfere in his matters. He threatened that if he did not do so his son may
be killed. So saying, he went away threatening the informant with dire
consequences. At about 6.45 p.m.

electricity supply was cut off when he was sitting in his shop alongwith one
Shambhu Lal, his son Mukund, Manjoor Ansari, PW.1 and Shankar Rastogi
(deceased) his son. Since it was the diwali day, candles and earthen lamps
were lit in his shop and elsewhere. 15 minutes later appellant Nandji
alongwith his brother appellant Bal Mukund Rastogi, accused Jagdish Chamar and
two other unknown persons entered his shop armed with country made pistols.
Nandji and Jagdish caught hold of his son and took him inside to the
residential apartment which is just behind the shop, at gun point. When the
informant and others wanted to intervene, they were prevented by appellant Bal
Mukund Rastogi and his companion who stood guard with country made pistols in
their hands. <S3>They threatened them to keep quiet. After Shankar Rastogi was
taken inside the house by Nandji Rastogi, Jagdish Chamar and one other unknown
person, he heard the report of gun fire followed by crying of women inside the
house. An alarm was raised and the accused fled away threatening them. When he
went inside he found his son bleeding and unconscious. People who had gathered
there, took the deceased to Kudra Hospital where he was declared dead.</S3>

