The appellant Gurpreet Singh an Indian Air Force personnel had a love marriage
with one Kalpna, a Nurse in a Military Hospital (since deceased). Later the
facts reveal that Gurpreet left his job from Indian Air Force and joined as
Assistant Vigilance Officer in Maruti Udyog in Gurgaon and Kalpna was also
adjusted in the same Maruti Udyog in a section known as Bharat Seats. They
lived in House No.C-2-113/4 D.L.F. Phase-I, Qutab Enclave, Gurgaon and had a
son Sudeep out of their lawful wedlock.

It appears that the parties to the said marriage did not pull on well and the
deceased and the appellant made a joint petition (Ex.P.N.) before the learned
District Judge, Gurgaon under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act seeking
divorce by mutual consent on 14.12.1993; though concededly they lived under
one roof till Kalpna breathed her last as noticed hereinbefore in this
judgment. The next date fixed in the petition was 17.7.1994.

Incidentally, on the further factual score it appears that purchase of flat
No.C-2-113/4, Gurgaon (Ex.A4) prior to filing of consent petition however was
in the joint name of both the spouses. The deceased thus had a half share in
the flat and the consent petition for divorce created a bounden obligation for
the appellant to pay a sum of Rs.3,00,000/- to the wife.

Materials available in the matter depict that around 11.00 or 11.30 O'clock in
the night of 13/14.2.1994, there were some sounds of shrieks and cries from
the house of Gurpreet Singh and Ashok Mazumdar, (P.W.1), a Businessman, living
in House No.113/3-2-2 D.L.F. Colony, Phase I, Gurgaon, not being aware of the
happenings got up from sleep and saw from the window that the smoke was
emitting from the said apartment and he noticed the appellant and his servant
being present there. The neighbourly gesture prompted him to telephone the
police as well as the fire brigade and Sub Inspector Bir Singh (P.W.5), on
receipt of the wireless message from Police Station Sadar, Gurgaon reached the
spot located in the area of Silver Oak Apartments, Qutab Enclave. The Sub
Inspector found <S3>the appellant-accused sitting in his room while the victim
Kalpna lying in burnt condition in another room. The two rooms were burnt but
the room in which the appellant-accused was sitting was not having marks of
burns. The records depict that the Sub Inspector despatched a ruqa that Kalpna
had been murdered by setting her on fire</S3> on the basis of which formal FIR
Ex.PG/1 was recorded by S.I.

Devinder Singh.

The burnt remains of the clothes of the deceased were taken into possession by
Inspector Murari Lal, (PW.7) who, as the records depict, recorded the
statement of Ashok Mazumdar (Ex.PA) and that of one Raj Kumar Chawla (since
deceased). Though 10/12 persons also gathered at the spot but they were not
prepared to state or disclose anything.

