Recapitulation of brief facts is necessary. Accused Bachittar Singh had two
brothers deceased Sukhwant Singh and Bhupinder Singh, who were elder to him.
All the three brothers were residents of the Village Dholewala. Sukhwant Singh
and Bhupinder Singh were residing in the Haveli, whereas accused Bachittar
Singh was residing separately in the Village. On 19.4.1994, at about 6.30
A.M., daily diary report No. 35 was got recorded by Bachittar Singh, stating
therein that during the night time he had gone to irrigate his land and when
he came back at about 3 A.M., he received information from his wife Rajbir
Kaur, that during the night time, <S3>she had heard firing in the Village.
Bachittar Singh, however, ignored it. At about 6.00 AM, his cousin Pipal
Singh, s/o Balkar Singh came to his residence and reported to him that at
about 1.00 AM two unknown persons had murdered Sukhwant Singh, Bhupinder Singh
and their families.</S3>

Thereafter, Bachittar Singh accompanied by Pipal Singh went to the house of
his brothers and found his brothers Sukhwant Singh and Bhupinder Singh
murdered alongwith their wives and children. Pipal Singh was left there to
guard the dead bodies and Bachittar Singh had gone to the Police Station to
lodge a report and as per his statement daily diary report was recorded at
6.30 A.M.

As per the prosecution story, when the police was investigating the case on
the spot, Joginder Singh (PW-3) son of Ajaib Singh, resident of village
Mastewala came there and his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C.

was recorded by the police. In his statement, Joginder Singh stated that his
sister - Piar Kaur was married to Sukhwant Singh about 15 years back.

Sukhwant Singh was not keeping good health as he indulged in excessive
drinking. Since he was not keeping good health, he had given his land on Theka
to his younger brother Bachittar Singh, but Bachittar Singh was not paying
reasonable Theka. As the financial position of Sukhwant Singh was not sound
and they were having difficulties in maintaining the family, Sukhwant Singh
and Piar Kaur consulted PW-3 and other family members and decided that this
time the land would not be given to Bachittar Singh on Theka. When this fact
was brought to the notice of Bachittar Singh, he threatened to eliminate both
his brothers along with their families and he refused to vacate the land. It
is further stated that on last Thursday (before the incident) his sister Piar
Kaur visited the Village Mastewala and disclosed that the land was not to be
given to Bachittar Singh. Joginder Singh along with his father and some
persons had gone to the Village Dholewala along with Piar Kaur to have a talk
with Bachittar Singh to vacate the land. It is stated that Bachittar Singh
along with Malook Singh Sarpanch, came to the house of Sukhwant Singh and
Bachittar Singh was requested to vacate the land as Sukhwant Singh had minor
children to support. Since Bachittar Singh was not giving reasonable theka,
they wanted to give the land to Bhupinder Singh to cultivate. Bachittar Singh
did not agree to this and replied that he would not vacate the land at any
cost.

Malook Singh Sarpanch supported him stating that the land should remain with
Bachittar Singh and they should not create any problem for him.

Bhupinder Singh also requested Bachittar Singh to vacate the land, but without
any result. Thereafter, Joginder Singh, his father and other members came back
to Village Mastewala with the idea of further consultation in the matter. On
18.4.1994, Joginder Singh had gone to the house of Sukhwant Singh to enquire
about the welfare of the family and to convene a Panchayat.

After meals, Joginder Singh was sleeping on the roof, when at about 1.00 A.M.
he heard firing from the side of deory. Then, he saw Bachittar Singh empty
handed, Malook Singh Sarpanch armed with .12 bore gun and Amarjit Singh @
Fauji armed with rifle. Malook Singh and Amarjit Singh were with muffled
faces. He saw them in the electric light, which was on in the courtyard. At
the instance of Bachittar Singh, Amarjit Singh @ Fauji had gone towards the
room of Bhupinder Singh along with Bachittar Singh and got opened the doors.
In the meantime, Malook Singh Sarpanch had gone towards the room of Sukhwant
Singh where the inmates of families were sleeping. The room was locked from
inside. Malook Singh had managed to go inside the room by removing the left
plank of the door. At this time, Joginder Singh heard firing from the rooms of
Bhupinder Singh and Sukhwant Singh. He was empty handed. Out of fear he came
down from the roof from the western side of the Haveli by jumping on the grass
from the house of Sukhwant Singh. Joginder Singh then came straight to his
Village Mastewala and disclosed about the incident to his family members.

Thereafter, Joginder Singh alongwith his family members came back to Village
Dholewala and found the police on the spot. ASI Surinder Mohan prepared
inquest report at 6.30 A.M. and also took into possession one piece of cloth,
thatha, turban, empty cartridges etc. vide recovery memos, attested by the
witnesses.

