The brief facts necessary for disposal of these cases are as follows :

There was a civil dispute pending between the deceased Virsa Singh and his
family on the one hand and Kuljinder Singh on the other in regard to a small
plot of land which was abutting the residence of the said parties in the
village of Srawan Bodla at Police Station Sadar Malout. In the said dispute,
appellant No.2 and his family were supporting Kuljinder Singh. On 11.10.1996
the civil case pertaining to the said dispute was listed before the concerned
court and in the said proceedings the deceased Virsa Singh had obtained an
interim order against the said Kuljinder Singh. On the date of the incident at
about 3.30 p.m. there was a verbal fight which also led to the parties
grappling with each other but that did not culminate in any serious incident
due to the timely intervention of some ladies in the families. It is the
prosecution case that thereafter at about 8 p.m. the appellants herein along
with 3 other accused persons came in a white Maruti car driven by the second
appellant and the said accused persons got down from the car, raising a
'Lalkara' (challenge) that they would teach the complainant party a lesson for
obtaining stay in regard to the land in question. Thereafter, it is stated
that the first appellant herein who was armed with a .12 bore double barrel
gun and the second appellant who was armed with a rifle along with 3 other
accused persons who were armed with 'dangs' attacked the deceased Virsa Singh
and his younger son Kulwant Singh on the roof of their house. It is stated
that during the said attack the <S3>first appellant Rachhpal Singh and the second
appellant Gurmit Singh fired shots from their respective weapons at Virsa
Singh and Kulwant Singh, consequent upon which each one of them received two
bullet injuries and died on the spot.</S3> This incident in question was witnessed
by Ravinder Singh, PW-3, who is the son of the deceased Virsa Singh and the
brother of deceased Kulwant Singh and Darbara Singh, PW-4, who is the mother's
sister's husband of PW-3 who resides about a kilometer and a half away from
the house of the complainant and was visiting the complainant and his family
for returning a trolley which he had borrowed from them. It is the further
case of the prosecution that thereafter PW-3 went to the Police Station at
Malout which is about 9 kms. from the place of the incident and lodged a
complaint at about 11 p.m. with SHO Ranjit Singh which complaint was
registered and forwarded to the jurisdictional Magistrate who received the
same by 2.45 a.m. on 12.10.1996. Immediately after registering the crime under
Sections 302, 148, 149 IPC and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act against the
named accused, the said SHO took up the investigation of the case and
proceeded to the place of the incident along with PW-10, Assistant Sub-
Inspector, Bohar Singh and others. During the course of the said
investigation, the said Officer recorded the statements of the witnesses and
at the time of the spot inspection he also collected the blood- stained earth
which was found underneath the dead bodies of Virsa Singh and Kulwant Singh in
the presence of local Panchas. The Investigating Officer also found two empty
.12 bore cartridge casings which were sealed as also 3 empties of 44.40 of the
bore rifles found near the dead bodies which were also sealed separately.
During the course of investigation, the Investigating Officer arrested the
said accused persons (except appellant No.1) on 25.10.1996 while they were
travelling in a white Maruti car bearing No. CHK 8320 driven by the second
appellant near the village of Punnu Khera. During the said arrest they found
Gurmit Singh, appellant No.2, in possession of a rifle of 44.40 bore on his
shoulder and 4 live cartridges which were seized from his possession by the
Investigating Officer. He also took the car in question into his possession
under Ex. P-Z. It is stated that on statement made by the concerned accused
the Investigating Officer also recovered certain 'dangs' from the places
disclosed by them. It is the further case of the prosecution that on
27.10.1996, the first appellant Rachhpal Singh was traced near the Railway
Station of village Kabarwala and at the time of his arrest he was in
possession of .12 bore double barrel gun and one belt containing 9 live
cartridges which was also seized by the investigating agency.
