The receipt which is in a printed form in English was filled up by the
deceased as PW 2 did not know English. At about 4.15 P.M. when PW 2 was
sitting at the counter along with the room boy Manjunath, <S3>the accused came and
told him that he had killed Ananthu</S3> and he should telephone to the police. At
that time he was wearing only a pant and his body was stained with blood.
Then, he sent the room boy Manjunath along with the accused to the room to see
what had happened.

Manjunath came back leaving the accused in room and closing it from outside.
Manjunath reported to PW 2 that murder had taken place and that he may
telephone to the owner of the lodge. Then, he contacted the proprietor's
father by name Jugga Raju (PW 3) over telephone and informed him that some
'Galata' (untoward incident) had taken place in the lodge and requested him to
come down to the lodge. PW 3 came to the lodge immediately and got a feed back
of the event from PW 2. PW 3 then contacted the police and informed them that
a murder had taken place in room No. 7 without naming the victim or the
assailant. Then, the police Sub-inspector PW 12 accompanied by police
personnel reached the lodge. He entered room No.7 in second floor by opening
the bolt. He found the accused sitting on the cot. A dead body was lying by
the side of the cot in a pool of blood. There were injuries on the neck and
the face and a blood stained chopper was found on the table. He arrested the
accused who gave his name as Ramdas and he sent the accused to the police
station. PW 12 recorded the statement of room boy Manjunath at the lodge. That
statement signed by Manjunath is Ex. P 10. and it was treated as complaint. PW
12 returned to the police station at about 5 P.M. and registered the crime
under Section 302 IPC and submitted FIR Ex. P 11 to the Magistrate and
superior officers. Then, PW 10 who was working as Circle Inspector of police
took over further investigation. He proceeded to the place of occurrence and
drew up spot Mahajar in the presence of Panchas PW 5 and another. He seized
various articles in the room including blood stained bed sheets and pillow
covers, bushshirt of the deceased, blood stained chopper etc. Then, in the
presence of the Panchas, he held inquest over the dead body. During inquest he
examined PWs 2 and 3. The inquest report is Ex. P 3. He sent the dead body for
post-mortem examination. According to PW 10 the accused was sent with a
requisition to the hospital through a police constable as he sustained minor
injuries. After the accused returned from the hospital PW 10 seized his
clothes M.O. 13 to 15 in the presence of Panch witness PW 7 after providing
alternative clothing to him. The seized articles were sent to the Forensic
Laboratory, Bangalore. The chemical analysis & Serology reports (P 9 and P 8)
confirmed the presence of human blood stains on various articles including
M.O. 6 and clothes. PW 10 deposed that during investigation it was disclosed
that there was a scuffle between the accused and the deceased.