Prosecution version sans unnecessary details as unfolded during trial was as
follows:

Accused no.4 Babu Jani @ Majid Khan @ Majid was an ex-employee of Hazi Mohd.
Yakub (hereinafter referred to as 'deceased'), who had five textile wholesale
shops, which he was running along with his sons and grandsons. Accused Babu
Jani joined hands with city dossier criminals, namely, Abdul Waheed Khan @
Waheed (accused no.1), Mohd. Haneef @ Haneef (accused no.2) and Mohd. Khadeer
@ Khadeer (accused no.3); and hatched a plan with the aforesaid three accused
persons and a friend of his namely, Aleem (accused no.5). The object was to
rob the deceased, and if necessary by liquidating him. Accused Babu Jani had
the knowledge that the deceased used to go his house around 8.00 p.m. with the
sale proceeds of the shops and the collections were more than rupees one lakh.
In pursuance of the conspiracy, accused Babu Jani took the first three accused
on 19.2.1993 and 20.2.1993 between 7 and 7.30 p.m., to point out the deceased
and to acquaint them with his movements of a fixed nature. First attempt was
made on 22.2.1993, but finding a lot of people around the spot, the intended
objective could not be achieved. On the next day i.e. 23.2.1993 the fateful
date of the incident, at about 7.30 p.m. after obtaining information from
accused Babu Jani accused nos.1 to 3 waited near house of the deceased on a
stolen Chetak scooter and were armed with the knives.

Accused no.2 was having a plastic tin containing chilly powder water in his
hands. At about 7.45 p.m. the deceased reached near his house in his
Ambassador car driven by Mohd. Taher PW2. He was carrying cash of more than
Rs.2.32 lakhs and demand drafts of Rs.1,60,000/- which were in his cloth bag.
When the driver opened the rear right door of the car and went to collect the
tiffin-carrier of the deceased from the left front door, accused nos. 1 to 3
kept their scooter in motion and rushed to the deceased Hazi Mohd. Yakub and
began stabbing him indiscriminately with their three knives, while accused
no.2 tried to snatch the bag containing the cash and the demand drafts. There
was street light and also light inside the car. When PW2 rushed to the rescue
of the deceased, accused no. 2 threw chilly powder water on his face and he
shouted for help. <S3>Further knife blows were given by the three accused persons
till the deceased collapsed.</S3> Accused no.2 snatched away the cash bag from the
hands of the deceased and all the three accused persons fled away on their
scooter. Though PW2 and one Samad Khan (PW-4) chased the accused persons to
some distance, they succeeded in fleeing away. Several other persons including
Mohd. Idris Ali Khan, Mohd. Abdul Bari (PW-3) tried to come near the deceased,
but they found him dead. The three accused Nos. 1 to 3 went to the house of
accused Aleem at Boda Banda where accused Babu Jani was waiting for them.

