
The incident involved in this case took place at about 2.30 p.m.

on 15.3.1988 when five young men, the two deceased in this case, namely, Mohan
and Basheer (hereinafter referred to as 'deceased' by their respective name),
and PW-1, PW-2 and PW-4, who were activists of the bundh, as followers of the
political parties which organized that bundh on that day, got into the flour
mill of the A-2 through the unlocked gate leading access to that mill situate
in a property comprising the residential building, a bread factory and other
structures belonging to that accused. This group of five men on passing beside
the mill of A-2 while they were perambulating the streets of Cheranelloor to
have a first hand information as to the observance of the bundh on coming to
know of the operation of the flour mill by A-2 proceeded to that place and
made demands to PW-15, the employee of A-2 who was operating the mill to close
down. An altercation took place between them and on hearing the commotion the
accused, A-1 and A-2 who were inside their residential building, situate to
the west of that mill, rushed to the place and directed the bundh activists to
go out of the mill. As the activists of the bundh persisted in their demands
for closing the mill, according to the prosecution, A-2 got out of the mill
and on the instruction given by A-2, A-1 locked the gate of the compound from
inside. Then both of them rushed back to the house with A-2 directing A-1 to
take out the gun and shoot down the bundh activists by declaring that all of
them should be finished off. On getting into the house and after closing the
outer door of that building, both the accused rushed to the southern room of
that building which faced the gate with a window opening to that side. The 1st
accused on the instigation of the 2nd accused, his father, and having that
accused beside him, fired at the bundh activists, who by that time had
approached near the locked gate, by using an S.B.B.L. Gun through the window.
<S3>The first shot fired from the gun hit against one of the bundh activists, who
had got into the compound, namely Basheer, and he fell down beside the gate.
The other four bundh activists on requesting the 1st accused not to open fire
rushed towards Basheer and, according to the prosecution, the first accused
fired again with the gun indiscriminately causing injuries to all of them.
Even when the first shot was fired from the gun passersby in the road situate
in front of that property also sustained injuries.

When the firing continued as stated above some of the residents of the area
who were standing beside the road also received gun shot injuries.

On hearing the gun shots people of the locality rushed to the scene of
occurrence and some of them by scaling over the locked gate broke opened the
lock and removed the injured to the road, from where they were rushed to the
hospital in a tempo van along with the other injured who had also sustained
gun shot injuries while they were standing beside the road. One among the
injured, namely, Mohanan breathed his last while he was transported in the
tempo to the hospital and another, namely, Basheer, succumbed to his injuries
after being admitted at City Hospital, Ernakulam.</S3> All the other injured were
admitted in that hospital to provide them treatment for the injuries
sustained. After the removal of the injured to the hospital in the tempo as
aforesaid a violent mob which collected at the scene of occurrence set fire to
the residential building, flour mill, bread factory, household articles,
cycles, a tempo and scooter, parked in front of the residential building of
the accused, infuriated by the heinous act of the accused in firing at the
bundh activists and other innocent people as aforesaid. Soon after the firing
both the accused and PW-15 escaped from the scene of occurrence and took
shelter in a nearby house.
