The case of the prosecution in brief is that the marriage of the accused with
Muneera Begum took place about 10 years back from the date of the incident and
thereafter they lived in the house of Madar Shariff, the elder brother of the
accused. Sometime thereafter the parents-in-law of the accused gave him a site
in the same village where he built a house and started living there. The
deceased Muneera Begum gave birth to three children and the elder one PW3
Rasheed was aged about 8 or 9 years. The accused started ill-treating his wife
after the birth of the third child and a Panchayat was held wherein he was
asked to behave properly and look-after his wife. The accused was working as a
labourer and was earning his livelihood by breaking the stones. The deceased
was making "agarbattis" in her house to make some extra money. At about 4.00
a.m. on July 24, 1986 the accused started quarreling with his wife and
demanded money which she had earned sometime back by selling agarbattis.
<S3>Thereafter he poured kerosene on her and set her on fire by a matchstick. PW 3
Rasheed (son of the accused) saw the incident and ran to the house of his
maternal grandmother PW 1 Jaina Bi, who lived at a short distance away. Jaina
Bi and her son PW 2 Syed Akbar (deceased's elder brother) came rushing and saw
that Muneera Begum had sustained burn injuries and the accused was also
present there. Muneera Begum was then taken to the Mission hospital in
Habbagodi but the doctors advised that she should be taken to Victoria
Hospital in Bangalore. The police at Habbagodi helped them in arranging a jeep
on which Muneera Begum was taken to Victoria hospital, Bangalore where she was
admitted at about 9.30 a.m. and was examined by PW 12 Dr.

KM Nagabhushan. He examined the injuries of the deceased and admitted her for
treatment and a memo was sent to Victoria Hospital Police Station.

PW 11 BK Krishnappa, ASI then came to the hospital and recorded the statement
of the deceased on the same day. Another statement of the deceased was
recorded on 26th July, 1986. She however succumbed to her injuries on July 31,
1986.</S3> After completing the investigation the Police submitted charge-sheet
against the accused-respondent and in due course the case was committed to the
Court of Sessions. The prosecution examined in all 15 witnesses and filed some
documents. The learned Sessions Judge believed the case of the prosecution and
convicted the accused-respondent under Section 302 IPC and sentenced him to
imprisonment for life. The appeal preferred by the accused was allowed by the
High Court and his conviction and sentence was set aside.

