In the present case, according to the prosecution, <S3>suspecting infidelity on
the part of his wife the respondent-accused Kheraj Ram had killed her, two
children and brother in law on 10.10.1992. The deceased persons namely, Amru
(wife of the accused), Achla (brother-in- law of the accused) and daughters
Kesi and Meera were fatally assaulted and suffered homicidal death.</S3> Law was
set to motion by a First Information Report which was lodged on 10.10.1992 at
about 7.30 a.m. and the alleged murders took place after mid-night of
9.10.1992 i.e. around 2.00 a.m. on 10.10.1992. The informant was one Daula Ram
who was examined as PW-1. He lodged the FIR on the basis of what he had heard
from Gaina Ram (PW-9). According to the prosecution, the following is the
factual background.

Accused woke up Gaina Rai (PW-9) around 2.00 a.m. on 10.10.1992 telling that
some one had given beatings to his children. When Gaina Rai (PW-9) asked him
who the person was and what type of clothes he was wearing, the accused
replied that he could not see his clothes but the person had run away. The
accused told him that he was sleeping in the small room, and when he came out
and started making uproar hearing the said person run away. On a query of the
witness as to where the said person had gone, accused replied he did not know.
The accused then informed the witness that not only his children, but also his
wife and brother-in-law had been beaten. The witness went to the dhani of
accused. The accused went inside. From the fencing line outside the dhani, the
witness could see that Amru, Achla and Kesi were lying on the cots, and Meera
was crying in pain that she was dying. The witness got perplexed. He asked
accused to remain present in the house and went to call the neighbours namely,
Khartha and Khumbha. He told them about what the accused had told them.
Thereafter, the witness and Khartha went to the house of Khumbha, who was also
told about the incident.

Khartha and Khumbha were sent to the dhani of Kheraj, and the witness called
one Daula (PW-1) who was sleeping in the gudal of his house. He disclosed what
he had heard and seen to Daula and he and Daula went to the dhani of Kheraj
where Khumba and Khartha were sitting outside.

Thereafter, the witness and Daula opened the back door and went inside and saw
that all the four persons were lying drenched with blood.

Immediately they entered inside, and found that except Meera, the rest three
had died. He enquired from Meera as to what had happened, but she could not
speak. At that time Kheraj was smoking chilam in the courtyard. The witness
came out and sent Daula to lodge a report with the police. Subsequently, Meera
also died. Then he sent Khartha to call Lalla and Sadula (brother of the
accused). After sunrise, they searched for footprints, if any. Though they
noticed footprints of a person in the north side going to the dhani of Achla
and returning from there, the footprints were of shoe-worn. The footprints
were also present in the east of the dhani. The accused used to blame the
deceased Amru for her alleged infidelity and was quarrelling with her. He was
told by Kannu and Veero (PWs 5 and 6 respectively) that the accused and his
wife had a quarrel in the night. The police investigated into the allegations,
and came to the conclusion that accused was responsible for the four killings.
Initially, a case was registered for commission of offences punishable under
Section 302 and Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short the
'IPC'), and subsequently, it was modified to Section 302 IPC when all the four
died.

