The prosecution case in brief is that deceased, Rakesh was a good friend of
respondent and he had lent a sum of Rs. 10,000/- to the respondent, which the
respondent was avoiding to pay in spite of the repeated request from the
deceased. It is the case of the prosecution on 27th of May, 1988 when the
deceased had gone to the shop of PW-2 Chandraprakash, to solicit insurance
policies, the respondent came to the shop of PW-2 at about 2.30 P.M. on his
scooter UGO 6070 and told the deceased that he has made arrangement for
repaying his loan. Therefore, he should come with him to collect the money.
The further case of the prosecution is that the deceased accompanied the
respondent on his scooter and went towards the refugee colony. Thereafter, the
whereabouts of the deceased was not known. Therefore, at about 6.30 P.M. in
the evening , PW-1, Satyapal, father of the deceased being worried about the
welfare of his son came to the shop of PW-2 inquiring about the whereabouts of
the deceased. Then PW-2 supposed to have told PW-1 about the respondent coming
and taking the deceased from his shop in the afternoon therefore, both PW-1
and PW-2 went to the house of the respondent, where from a distance they saw
the front door of the house of the respondent was locked. These witnesses then
returned to their respective homes. The further case of the prosecution is on
the next day i.e. on 28th of May, 1988 at about 7.30 P.M. PW-1 went to the
house of PW-2 and told him that there was no news of his son or of the
respondent. Therefore, he decided to lodge a police complaint which was
dictated by PW-1 to PW-2, and the same was lodged with the police on that
evening.

The prosecution further states that about 10 P.M. the police went to the house
of the respondent and tried to break open the lock of the house. When this
news of police having gone to the house of the respondent was heard by PW-2,
who incidentally, resides close by, he went to the house of the respondent and
witnessed the lock of the house being broken. <S3>On entering the house the police
recovered a body, packed in a sack in the gallary of the house of the
respondent which when opened was found to be the body of Rakesh.</S3> On search of
the dead body they found a sum of Rs. 566.50 from the inner pocket of the pant
of the deceased which was blood stained. Same was recovered under panchnama
exhibit-2. The prosecution further states at the time of the inquest held by
the PW-9 that they found a blood stained knife which was also seized and they
also collected blood stained earth from the house of the respondent under
different panchnamas.

The prosecution further states that when the police searched for the
respondent, he was not available hence he was declared as an absconder by the
competent court. Prosecution states later he was arrested on 4th of June, 1988
from Pillibhit.

