On 15.7.1989 Magan PW-1 lodged a complaint with Police Station Pahada alleging
that on the previous day at about 9 p.m. the respondent herein  Dhool Singh 
had caused serious injuries with a sharp-edged weapon to Amar Singh son of
Shankar Singh in a field known as Pahada which incident according to the
complaint was noticed by Ramesh PW-4. The attack in question was alleged to be
due to the dispute between the respondent herein and deceased Amar Singh as to
the right of the deceased to graze his cattle on the land belonging to the
respondent. It is based on the said complaint that after investigation the
Police of Pahada Police Station filed a chargesheet against the respondent
herein for offences punishable under section 302 IPC as also under sections 4
and 25 of the Arms Act. Learned Sessions Judge-II, Udaipur, in Sessions Case
No.58 of 1989 after trial found the respondent herein guilty of the offences
charged against him and sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment and a fine
of Rs.200 for an offence under section 302 IPC, in default to undergo simple
imprisonment for a period of 15 days. He also found the respondent guilty of
offence punishable under section 4 read with 25 of the Arms Act and awarded
punishment of 6 months' simple imprisonment with a fine of Rs.200 in default
to undergo simple imprisonment for 15 days.

As stated above it is the finding of two courts below that due to the injury
caused by the respondent to the deceased with a sword measuring about 3 ft. in
length the deceased suffered an injury on his neck which injury was described
by PW-10 the doctor who conducted the post mortem as follows :

"Incised wound 9.0 cm x 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm on transversally placed on left side
of neck Thyroid Cartilage is cut. Transversally on left side sternoclinoid
muscle External Jugalar Vein Internal Jugalar Vein and common carotid Artery
cut completely.

Margin of wound is clear cut deep staining Gaping and swelling of surrounding
tissue. Wound is Ante Mortem in nature." The cause of death according to this
witness was "cut on the neck and the excess bleeding and the heart failure."
The trial court on this aspect of the case came to the conclusion that the
prosecution has proved <S3>that the respondent herein knowing well the
consequences of his act, committed the offence of killing Amar Singh,</S3> while
doing so, came to the following conclusion :
