Prosecution case as unfolded during trial is essentially as follows:

Ram Bilash Singh (PW5), deceased and one Ramanand Jha (PW-2) had gone to
withdraw money from a bank at Barauni. The deceased also carried some amount
to be paid to a wood seller. After withdrawal of money from the bank all the
three persons proceeded on bicycle and reached near the post office of their
village Bihat. At that time three of the accused persons namely, Surya Narain
Singh, Rameshwar Singh and Deoki Nandan Singh coming from a place of some
political meeting saw them. They were followed by many other persons including
the accused persons. Four accused persons including the appellant caught hold
of the deceased. While accused Ram Ratan Singh and Umesh Singh caught hold of
the informant (PW5), accused Ram Shankar Singh and Sahdeo Singh caught hold of
Ramanand Jha (PW-2). Accused Surya Narain Singh, Rameshwar Singh and Deoki
Nandan Singh who were leaders of a political party directed others to kill the
deceased, as it was a good opportunity to kill him.

At the behest of these three persons as aforesaid four persons caught the
deceased and took him towards North in the field. <S3>Accused-appellant Ram Udgar
Singh fired a gun shot on the chest of the deceased. Other accused Suro Singh
(since dead) also shot at the deceased. Receiving the gunshot injuries the
deceased fell down. Thereafter the accused persons ran away after taking the
cash carried by the deceased. The occurrence was witnessed by Kapildeo Singh,
and others arrived there on hearing the sound of firing. The deceased was
taken to the hospital in injured condition, but he breathed his last there.</S3>
First information report was lodged and investigation was undertaken. On
completion of investigation, charge sheet was placed as aforesaid. As the
Criminal Procedure Code of 1898 (for short the 'Old Code') was in operation,
proceedings were initiated under the existing law. While the case was still
pending for inquiry under Chapter XVIII of the Old Code, the new Code came
into force, and the case was committed to the Court of Sessions in 1977.
Charges were framed. PWs.1 to 4 were examined. As some witnesses were not
examined earlier petition was filed and it was taken note of and some other
persons were examined.
