
Deceased Maheswari was working as a Branch Post Master in a village post
office. She was unmarried. One year prior to the occurrence she developed
intimacy with Azagu Raja.

This was objected to by the accused persons and accused Krishnan and Ganesan
reprimanded the deceased and warned her when she was returning from her place
of work not to have any connection with Azagu Raja. Report was filed at the
Police Station by the deceased in this regard. Thereafter, the police looked
into the matter and advised them not to quarrel with each other. Six months
prior to the occurrence, deceased used to tell her brother Parameswaran (PW1)
that she was receiving telephonic threats from the accused. PW1 decided to
take the deceased to her work place and to bring her back home in view of such
threats. On 26.6.1991, again the deceased gave a report to the SHO,
Srivilliputhur Town Police Station stating that she was apprehending danger at
the hands of the accused. Even one week prior to the occurrence, the three
acquitted accused came to the Branch Post office and threatened her with dire
consequences and even told her that her life was in danger. On 3.12.1991 at
about 2.30 p.m. PW-1 went to the work place of the deceased and when both of
them were coming back, suddenly the accused appellants emerged from the side
of a Milk dairy. Accused- appellant Ayyar Thavar said in a loud voice as to
how the deceased dared to continue her intimacy with his son-in-law,
notwithstanding the warnings given to her. He tried to assault the deceased.
When it was warded off by PW1, he was Given fist blows on his neck and nose
and pushed down. On seeing this, the deceased tried to escape by running
towards the nearby milk dairy.

<S3>Accused-appellant Ayyar Thavar inflicted a cut injury on the backside of the
deceased uttering in loud voice "die with this". Accused Porutchyelvan gave a
blow with aruval on the head of the deceased on the right side. Similarly,
accused- appellants Krishnan and Ganesan caused cut blows on her back. When
the deceased fell down, the accused- appellant Ayyar Thavar inflicted another
cut on the right ear lobe. Thereafter, all the four accused persons ran away.

PW1 entrusted the body of the deceased with Rengan (PW2) and rushed to the
nearby Police Station and gave a report at about 3.00 p.m. Periyakaruppan
(PW11) reduced the same into writing and registered a case and prepared a
first information report and sent the same to the Court and the concerned
higher officials. He also sent PW2 with a medical memo for treatment and
rushed to the place of occurrence and sent the injured Maheswari for treatment
with a constable.

Dr. Muthuswami (PW7) examined her at about 3.40 p.m. on 3.12.1991 and found
five injuries. PW1 was also examined at about 4.00 p.m. and injury was noticed
on the nose. Titus Gnanadoss (PW12), the Inspector of Police at the Police
station took up the investigation. Intimation was received by him about death
of the deceased at about 4.40 p.m.</S3> Post mortem was conducted by Dr. Abbas Ali
(PW8). After completion of investigation the case was committed to the Court
of Sessions, Kamarajar and the trial was held.

