Prosecution version as unfolded during trial is as follows:

Chandran (hereinafter referred to as the deceased), a Gulf returned
agriculturist while on his way to Panthalam market around midnight between
25.5.95 and 26.5.95 at a Panchayat road at Arunoottimangalam was brutally
assaulted. Soon he was lifted to the Government Hospital, Mavelikara. After
first aid, he was referred to the Medical College Hospital suspecting head
injury. The injured was shifted to the Medical College hospital, Kottayam.
While undergoing treatment he succumbed to the injuries at around 12.50 p.m.
on 27.5.95. After return from his engagement abroad deceased was engaged in
betel cultivation and trade.

Valsala (PW-15) is his widow, and Manoharan (PW-4) was his brother.

Santosh (PW-18) was his nephew. On 25.5.1995 he was on his way to Panthalam
market, which starts functioning from early hours in the morning. When
deceased and Santosh (PW-18) reached near the house of P.K. Ramachandran
(PW-14), all the named accused (A-1 to A-6) and two others waylaid them.
Bhargavan (A-1) dealt a blow on the head of the deceased with an iron rod
stating that he should not live any more.

<S3>Deceased slumped on receiving the blow. Then Dhanarajan alias Dhanan hit the
deceased with motor cycle chain on his neck and back. Deceased cried out in
pain, hearing which A-1 said that he was not dead and should be finished.
Responding to this, accused Sudhakaran (dead), Chandran, Sadasivan and
Radhakrishnan (A-2, A-3, A-5 and A-6 respectively) assaulted the deceased on
the head and back with sticks. Santosh (PW-18) cried for help and ran towards
home. Hearing the cry Manoharan (PW-4) and other neighbours rushed to the
spot. On the way Santosh (PW-18) met Manoharan (PW-4). Meanwhile Anandan
(PW-2) and Nalini (PW-3) rushed there. Anandan (PW-2) and Manoharan (PW-4)
supinated the deceased who asked for water and named the accused persons to
have assaulted him. PWs 3 and 4 gave water to the deceased. PW-18 Valsala
(PW-15) and others in the meantime reached the place. PW-4, PW-18 and others
shifted the deceased to the Government Hospital, Mavelikara. Dr. V.C.
Alexander (PW- 5) attended the injured and opined that he should be shifted to
Medical College Hospital, Kottayam as there was suspected head injury. He also
sent an intimation to the Mavelikara Police Station. Since PW-4 and PW- 18 did
not carry much money, they returned home, collected some money and clothes and
along with PW-15 searched for a car. They went to the house of one Shajahan,
Advocate requesting for a car. Later, they got a car and the injured was
shifted to Medical College Hospital, Kottayam.

Though he was admitted and treated at the Hospital in the intensive care unit,
he did not survive.</S3> The Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police had received the
intimation sent by PW-5. At about 3 p.m. on 26.5.1995, he recorded the First
Information Report on the basis of narration by PW-

