Original accused A-1 Premnarayan and his supporters which included the
appellant herein were angered by the fact that Harsewak PW-12 was allowing
their enemies Bharta Gawli and Moharman to sit at his doorsteps, therefore,
said Premnarayan complained to Dilip Singh PW-3 to prevent PW-2 from allowing
those two persons from sitting at his doorsteps. It is stated that on 7.6.1983
at about 8 p.m. in the village Gata of which the complainant, accused and
other witnesses were residents, the appellant herein brought out his 12 bore
gun to settle his disputes with PW-12 and without heeding to the request of
PW-3 to allow him to settle the dispute, the appellant started firing
indiscriminately, consequent to which one Raghuvar son of Naktu died and Ms.
Mithilesh PW-5 and Parasram PW-6 were injured. According to prosecution,
PWs.3, 4, 5, 6, 12 and 18 witnessed the incident in question. It is the
further case of the prosecution that Puttu Singh Yadav PW-19 who was then SHO
of Mehgaon Police Station, on coming to know of the said incident, came with
his Police force to Gata village. He found on the way PWs.5 and 6 injured
witnesses being taken to the hospital in a bullock-cart hence he directed
Kundan Singh PW-8, Police Constable to accompany them to the Police Station
and came to the place of incident and on an information given by PW-3 recorded
Ex. D/4 Dehati Nalishi and sent the same with PW-14 another Constable to the
Police Station where a crime was registered on the basis of said complaint. On
completion of investigation a chargesheet under Sections 302, 109, 307/109,
324, 324 read with 109 IPC was submitted against four accused persons
including the appellant herein which came to be tried by the 1st Additional
Sessions Judge, Bhind, M.P. Before the trial court the prosecution relied upon
the evidence of PWs.3 to 6, 11, 12 and 18 who according to the prosecution,
were the eye witnesses to the incident in question apart from other official
witnesses. During the trial, PWs.5 and 11 did not support the prosecution
case. While PWs.3, 4, 6, 12 and 18 supported the prosecution case. The defence
had taken a specific plea before the trial court that there were two factions
in the village who were opposed to each other and consequent upon a certain
misunderstanding, there was a fight between the two factions which included
the complainant and others on one side and the accused and others on the
other. In the said fight, <S3>the complainant party resorted to shooting by fire-
arms indiscriminately consequent to which many people got injured and the
victim Raghuvar died,</S3> PWs.5 and 11 got injured apart from the injuries
suffered by the accused themselves. They also contended that they had filed a
cross complaint against the members of the complainant party.

