According to the first information report (Ext.4) lodged on 27.11.1988 Sri
Rasid Imam (hereinafter referred to as 'deceased') the officer-in-charge of
Arwal Police Station on receiving information about assemblage of extremists
at village Bhadasi in the house of acquitted accused Vakil Ram, with police
revolver and other ammunitions looted from the police giving rise to Arwal
P.S. Case No. 174/88 and their plan to attack their adversaries to kill them,
formed a raiding party with the other police officials including Sub Inspector
Mohan Singh, the informant (PW-12), Sub Inspector Gajadhar Chaubey (PW-22),
Assistant Sub Inspector S.N.

Pandey (PW-11), Constable Ram Binay Singh (PW-9), Constable Amul Kumar Singh
(PW-10), Constable Md. Najim (PW-8), Constable Babu Mahto (PW-5) and others.
He also requisitioned additional force from Kishan Bhavan, Baidrabad. After
entering the information in the station diary he proceeded to village Bhadasi.
On the way he met another police official Irshad Ahmed who was going to see
the DSP. He was asked by the deceased to inform the DSP in regard thereto. On
reaching Jahanabad, more additional force consisting of Hridyanand Puri
(PW-17), Babu Lal Manjhi (PW- 18) and others reported to him. At about 11.30
a.m. on reaching village Bhadasi, the police party proceeded towards the house
of acquitted accused Vakil Ram along with Sant Prakash (PW-3) and Jitendra
Prasad (PW-4) by observing the required procedures. On reaching the house of
Vakil Ram, the deceased posted some police personnel with Sub Inspector
Gajadhar Choudhary at the gate of the house, and sent another section of force
with S.N. Pandey towards eastern northern direction. The deceased along with
others on entering the house saw 20-25 persons there. On seeing the police
party accused Mukaiya Shah Chand of Bhadasi (A-1) directed others to bring
rifles and carbines and to kill the police party, whereupon the accused
persons started firing by going inside a room. As a result of the firing,
constable Amul Kumar Singh (PW-10) was hit on his left side of the body. In
spite of the injury, said Amul Kumar Singh (PW-10) fired one round, but fell
on the ground. One of the extremists snatched his rifle who was shot at by
firing made by Babu Mahto (PW-5). Again while one of the extremists attempted
to flee away with the rifle, the deceased snatched it after chasing him. <S3>But
in between the extremist had made firings as a result of which the deceased
died at the spot.</S3>

In the meantime, the extremists started firing upon the police party, who by
taking position behind a door fired at the extremists. As a result of firing
by the extremists Hridyanand Puri received injury in his hand. Taking stock of
the situation, the informant apprehending threat on the life of police party
as well as snatching of the ammunition, ordered for firing. On the firing made
by Hridyanand Puri, one of the extremists was killed followed by three rounds
of firing by Babu Lal Manjhi (PW-18) and five rounds of firing by Md. Nazim
(PW-8). As a result of the firing, one more extremist was killed. Even after
firing by the police the accused persons continued firing on the police party
which compelled the police party for further firing, which caused injury in
the leg of one extremist, who started fleeing away. While the accused persons
started fleeing, some of them Lakshman Sao (A-5), Lakhi Choudhary, Shyama
Choudhary (A-7), Madan Singh (A-10), Ajit Kumar (A-6), Ram Janam Ram (A-3),
Nanhe Rajwar (A-4), Manhgu Choudhary (A-15), Mahendra Choudhary, Shorai
Choudhary (A-12), Baleshwsar Choudhary (A- 14), Arvind Chaudhary (A-13) were
apprehended by the police party. They also apprehended Shanti Devi (A-8) along
with two children Lila and Chandan from a room situated south of the courtyard
of the house. In the meantime DSP Arwal arrived along with Sub Inspector
Irshad Imam and additional reinforcement. It came to light that the extremists
were fleeing away by making firing and he along with other police personnel
chased the extremists for seizing their arms, but they managed to flee away.
