Prosecution version in a nutshell is as follows:

Giarsi, younger sister of Ram Sarup (PW-1) was earlier married to Hans Raj
(hereinafter referred to as "deceased"), son of Devi Lal (PW-2) about two
months before the date of incident. Deceased was earlier married to Rukmani of
Village Munda (Rajasthan), the sister of the two accused, namely Jas Ram and
Main Pal.

But she had committed suicide some time earlier and on this account, the
relationship between Hans Raj and the two accused had become strained. On
15.11.1993, Ram Sarup (PW-1) came to Sirsa from his village Kenia to purchase
some household articles. At about 5 to 5.50 p.m., he was returning to his
village on foot when he met deceased Hans Raj and Devi Lal (PW 2) on the way
and they continued to walk towards village Kenia. A short while later, they
saw a motor cycle coming from the behind with two persons riding on it.
Deceased Hans Raj was then walking slightly ahead of Ram Sarup (PW 1) and Devi
Lal (PW 2). The motor cycle stopped near the deceased and the person who was
driving the same i.e.

Main Pal, addressed the person sitting on the pillion i.e. Jas Ram asking him
to avenge the killing of their sister. <S3>Jas Ram immediately got down from the
motor cycle and fired a shot from his country made pistol at Hans Raj, which
hit him on the right side of his chest, as a result of which he fell down on
the ground. PW-1 Ram Sarup raised an alarm on which accused Jas Ram called
upon the driver of the motorcycle to get away.

Both the accused then drove away on the motor cycle. Ram Sarup (PW-1) on
looking around noticed that Devi Lal had run away on account of fear and that
Hans Raj had died almost immediately.
As it was dark, much
progress in investigation could not be made, but was continued on the next
morning, SI Ram Dhan inspected the dead body,</S3> recorded the inquest report and
picked up blood stained earth, an attache-case and fired cartridge case from
the spot. Accused Jas Ram surrendered in Court on 18.11.1993 and was
interrogated by SI Ram Dhan in the presence of Balram (PW-6) and Devi Dutt. On
a disclosure statement made by him, a country made, 12 bore pistol, (Ex.P-2)
and two live cartridges were recovered. Accused Main Pal was arrested on
19.11.1993 and was interrogated and on his disclosure statement a country
made, 12 bore pistol (Ex. P-3) and three live cartridges were recovered. The
spent cartridge cases and the pistols were sent for comparison to the Forensic
Science Laboratory, Madhuban, which opined vide its report Ex.PN that one of
the cartridges matched the weapon recovered at the instance of accused Main
Pal.
